<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/casandra-silva-sibilin-western-civilization-2025-08-20 -->

# Casandra Silva Sibilin (Western Civilization)

<!-- vimeo: 1111501597 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

<!-- vid-ref:1111501597 -->
[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1111501597)


What if your students were virtual reality designers of the future, using AI to generate worlds images out of core texts, using their own interpretation of, of those texts, of those readings? That was the creative premise behind a writing assignment that I tried with my students recently, and I think it really helped with some of the core objectives of the course. Um, Cassandra Silva and I teach philosophy and humanities, and the course was cultural diversity, Western civilization. It is a survey course covering science, literature, philosophy, religion, all the way from biblical times through Greek, Roman, and the modern period. Um, and throughout all those eras, it's always primary readings. So we talk, uh, read, read the authors directly rather than secondary readings. It's also a writing intensive course. Students do a fair amount of writing. Now, if you have, um, taught a course like that before, you know, it presents a lot of challenges. You wanna find ways to get students motivated to do the readings and to persist in spite of it feeling like they're very long. They're dense and kind of distant in time and place from students' own experiences. So how to make them relevant and relatable, um, and for writing, yeah, how to craft a writing assignment that really helps you to do that. Help students stay focused on the text and also, um, build, help them build their own unique human voice, their self-expression. And I'm, I'm always, uh, revising assignments and coming up with new ones. And I also want students to, to use AI critically and responsibly. So I got inspiration for this assignment from the release of the image four Oh, everyone was talking about it. And a lot of the use cases I saw were for educators illustrating lessons like infographics or, um, illustrating modules from their courses. And I wanted to do something a little different. I wanted to put students in the driver's seat, put them in the role of builders, and in that way they had more, um, agency and responsibility over their interactions with the AI tool. And the core activity that this, this writing assignment builds on is that a student chooses a passage, develops a, a prompt to generate an image based on the passage. So, for example, let's say this Is a favorite passage of mine from Dante Inferno, one of the readings we were working with, and this is a somewhat simple, simple prompt of just asking, uh, JGBT to illustrate it. The image I get, maybe it's okay, but maybe it's different than what I had in mind. And I could probably think of ways that it will reflect more the parts of the passage that I care about. For instance, um, maybe a, a part that I wanna use to, to make the image richer, more interesting is the hero was so full of sleep. And here's another version, um, revising the prompt. So whatever the case, it keeps bringing me back to the reading keeps bringing me back to my own reaction to, to the reading my own interpretation, um, and reflecting and iterating as I work with the AI tool. Now, I think this kind of core activity could work for any discipline that has reading material, but works specially well for courses like in the humanities and literature where you have multiple interpretations, um, or room for different intellectual or emotional reactions to the reading. Now, I'll show you the way it's built into a longer writing assignment and, uh, through the student facing instructions. And on the surface, yes, it's, it's about generating images and imagining like they're in the, in the future and this is their, their job. Um, but this is really just a, a way to, to get them to those objectives that I, that I care about the reading closely reflecting and, um, considering, uh, counterarguments as well. So one, uh, big pedagogical move here as well is working in teams. This is an assignment that could work individually, but I found it's, uh, more fun and promotes more critical thinking in teams. In this particular class, it was, um, online synchronous. So they were working in breakout rooms, and I jumped around breakout rooms to, to help and to hear their process. They, um, were really thinking hard about which passages they wanted to pick because that was gonna set up the, the whole, the whole work with, um, with the image generation. And there, um, I did observe some things that, that were surprising and, um, and really I hadn't planned for, but some of the groups were finding common themes. They wanted to pick passages that had themes in common, and that was great 'cause that's also one of the core objectives of the course to think across different texts. Um, once they selected the passage, that was just the first step. The next was to Really develop a good prompt. And you only know it's a good prompt after testing it and trying it together. Um, some guiding questions to help them with that process was to ask them what were controversial elements or unexpected details in the image, how the image generated questions they hadn't thought about before. And here, students wrote about many interesting things like the, the personality, the mood, the symbolism, things that they wouldn't have written about if just focusing directly on, on the text. That's, that's what students themselves told me in their reflections. And, um, how does changing small details in the prompt affect the results once they were done with that process? And with all three images, they share them in a class padlet for everybody to see. Now that is the process itself. The writing assignment is to reflect on everything and write it in individually, including reflecting on the process of selecting the, the passages and the process of working with the team on generating the image and, uh, all the answers to those guiding questions. Finally, the conclusion is how might the, this is the counter argument part. How might the AI illustrations be significantly different than someone's experience, uh, reading those passages? So always bringing it back to the, the human element, the human reaction and what it was like to work with others rather than just by themselves and, and with the ai. Um, and another, um, interesting thing that came, came up that we were planning to do it was that when students shared it in the board, and we talked about it in class, since they hadn't included the passages, we could use these as a, as a guessing game. So students got to get to guess, uh, what, what passage is that? What reading, what passage is that? And it served to review the class materials. But all in all, the work that I saw in the, in the writing assignments themselves was very close to what we were doing in class. You, you could really see the, the interaction with each other, the interaction with the text, which is what I look for. And many students share that this helped them to think about their readings in ways that they hadn't before. And it really built their AI literacy, because many hadn't realized just quite how important the prompt is. They just thought, oh, image generation is just an image you get from, from ai. And, and that's it. Um, so I, I hope that was interesting for your own work and your own teaching. Good luck and thank you for watching.
