<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/codex-for-beginners-2026-04-22 -->

# Codex for Beginners

<!-- vimeo: 1185658764 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1185658764)

<details>
<summary>자막: Codex for Beginners</summary>

Hello, everybody. Thank you so much for joining us, and welcome to our Codex for Beginners class here today. We're so excited to have you. My name is Aaron Wolkowitz, I'm a solutions engineer with OpenAI, and we're excited to get started and dive deeper into what Codex can do. We've titled this "Codex for Almost Everything," and definitely "Codex for Everyone." So as a reminder, this class is really intended for beginners. No technical expertise is required. We're not going to be writing any code. We're mostly just going to be talking to Codex in natural language prompts in English, and going back and forth with it. So again, we're excited to go ahead and dive in. So with that, we'll go over a few different sections here over slides, but spend the majority of our time in Codex itself, demoing out different things. The first concept that we want to emphasize, and we talk about this all the time internally, is that you can just build things, and that you, again, is really meant for everyone. Not just developers, not just for kind of advanced technical folks, but really for everyone. One kind of teaser I have here, I know that many folks might have heard of the concept of prompt engineering, getting a large language model to do what you want. So a little quiz with the group here. Who's better at prompt engineering, a solutions engineer or a copy editor? I can assure you that it is the latter and not the former. And I know this because my wife is a copy editor. I'm a solutions engineer. And she writes way better prompts than I do. Right? So in many ways, it's actually non-technical resources, folks that know how to write well, folks that know how to express their ideas very clearly. Those are actually the people that are often best suited to use large language models and use advanced coding assistance like Codex. So again, our biggest recommendation is don't be afraid. Even if you have no technical background, you actually might be better at prompting the model and getting the outputs that you want. And again, the goal here is that you no longer have to write the code. Instead, you're assigning the work to Codex, and you're allowing this coding agent of Codex to accomplish your work by writing software on your behalf. Right? So you can almost think of it like an intern that's really good at writing software and taking whatever recommendation you have, whatever goal you have, or assignment you have, and turning it into code and making something real. Again, you can just build things. One really quick refresher on prompt engineering, right? We talked about earlier, right, is that the ability to prompt effectively, the ability to tell the large language model what you want is critical. And to do that effectively, it's important to be clear on the task, clear on who you are, and then clear on the output. This is a really simple example of, "Tell me about perennial gardening," is an okay prompt, but even better if you can give it context or a persona. "I'm a novice gardener in Northern Virginia." And even better, if you can give it an output you want. "Hey, I want a beginner's guide to perennial gardening with step-by-step instructions," et cetera. All of these similar concepts around prompting that you use for ChatGPT are going to be pretty much the same in Codex. The more clarity that you can give Codex, the better it's going to do at accomplishing the goals you have. So next, I want to talk a little bit more about what's actually possible in Codex and why. And we kind of have here that almost everything is possible. That remark is actually an homage to a blog post that we came out with late last week, "Codex for Almost Everything." We launched a series of user-friendly features that we've added, specifically targeted at non-technical folks. So any of the beginners that are on this session today, anyone who has never written a line of code before, we are aiming to make Codex more and more usable for you, and I strongly encourage you, look up this blog post, "Codex for Almost Everything." There's a lot of cool features in there. You're going to see a lot of them in today's demo as well. So when I think about the layers of the cake about what makes Codex possible, we talk a lot internally and externally and kind of across the AI community about the models. The models are really important. They're the underlying engine that makes all of these things possible. They're the magic that actually gives answers when a user asks a question. They're really powerful, and they're awesome. But sometimes I actually think we concentrate a little bit too much on the models because there's so many other things that enable the models to get you to an outcome that you really care about, and that answers your questions. Maybe the most important that has come out in the last three or four months is what we call internally the agentic harness, or even just the Codex harness. That's really just a fancy way of saying that it is kind of the layer that provides the orchestration. So the model is really powerful. It's kind of your engine, but you really need a brain on top of that engine to decide, "What tools should I use? Should I use web search? Should I look through the files in a computer? Should I write a very specific set of code?" The harness is the thing that decides what to do, and then it calls the model to actually execute whatever function it's asking for. To make that harness more impactful, over the last couple of years, OpenAI, as well as the rest of the AI community, has been adding on more and more tooling that provides the harness with more things to work with. So if the models are kind of the engine and the agentic harness is kind of more of the kind of brain or the driver of the car, the tooling are all the bells and whistles on the outside that gives that driver the ability to do really powerful things. We're going to talk more in more detail during today's demo about skills, about connectors, plugins, computer use, and then there's other things we're not going to spend as much time on, like browser use, web search, research, and executing code that are really important tools as well, kind of in that toolkit of what's possibleAnd then if you think about, okay, you've got the models, the engine, you've got the harness, the driver, you've got the tooling, all the bells and whistles on the outside to tell the engine what to do. The most important thing, or an additional thing on top of that, is providing the actual surface for users to log in and engage with these models. So, we're going to be primarily spending time in the Codex app today. We strongly recommend if you do not have a coding background, start in the Codex app. There is an IDE, there is a CLI. If you don't know what those terms stand for, don't worry about them, focus on the app because that's really where a lot of the magic that Codex provides comes in. And we'll be spending all of our time in the app today. So, a little bit more detail on some of the tools. One is a skill. A skill really is just there to provide instructions on a repeated workflow. So for example, we have a skill that creates skills and a skill that installs skills. And this is an example of a really simple skill. Hey, why don't we create a skill that rewrites text or a document for non-technical readers? We're going to remove jargon and reword it in a digestible way. The beautiful thing about a skill is that you can build it one time, and once it's built, you can call it again and again and again. And when I say call it, all I mean is, in your Codex prompt, you can just write slash or dollar sign and reference the skill, and then you can use it. And we'll show some examples of that a little bit later on. Plug-ins or connectors are really just ways to connect to common applications. So OpenAI, out of the box, has about 100 or so different connectors or plug-ins. We're constantly adding more. You see things on this page like GitHub, Slack, Linear, Notion, Gmail, Drive, et cetera. There's a lot of different connectors. All of the most common applications that you use, we're building plug-ins for. And the real power is connecting a plug-in and a skill together. So imagine you used a plug-in to connect to something like SharePoint to bring back a document, and then a skill to convert that really technical manual into something that removes all that technical jargon and provides something easy for the user. Combining those two things together, also really powerful, and we'll show some examples there too. And then we'll also show some examples of automations. So you have the ability to run those routine tasks in the background so you can kind of set it and forget it. And you're starting to see the agents do things on your behalf, at whatever time cadence you ask them to do it. This is a really small sample of some of the things you can do with Codex, a weekly CSV roll-up, or a file inbox cleanup, or a doc summary. You see the list here. I'm not going to go through all of them. We're actually not necessarily going to go through this exact list, but just want to give you a flavor of some of the things that are possible with Codex. So now let's actually talk about how to get started, and then we'll dive into the demos. So the first thing is, if you do not yet have the Codex app, strongly recommend downloading it to get started. There is a Codex cloud version of Codex that you can access directly from ChatGPT, but the most powerful experience is in the app. So strongly recommend going to openai.com/codex and then downloading the app. This session today, I'll be moving quicker than your kind of average training session to get through more of this content. So it might be a little bit hard to follow along directly during the session itself. But I do encourage you to download the app, watch this recording once it gets posted. You can pause the video and follow along at a little bit of a slower speed. But again, download the app first. And then once you've downloaded it, it's going to ask you to sign in with either an API key or your ChatGPT account. For non-technical users, many of you might not have an API key, and that's totally fine. Set up a ChatGPT account if you don't already have one, and then log into Codex via that ChatGPT account. The nice thing is that whatever permissions, whatever settings you've got in ChatGPT, let's say, for example, in your ChatGPT Enterprise, you have US-based data residency, as an example. All of those controls and settings are inherited when you log into Codex with that ChatGPT workspace. So it's a really powerful way to get started and to kind of ensure that all those admin features and security features are ready to go. Once you get into Codex, and we'll talk about this live in a second, you're going to see some examples of projects and chats. So projects are just a fancy word for folders, just a folder on your local computer. And so if you're doing a demo or a project or some activity in a specific folder, just add a project of whatever that folder is, and you can get started. But if you're not doing anything related to a specific folder, you just have a general question for Codex, you can use the chat function to do that. And I'll show this in just a second live. So with that, let's dive into some demos. I'm going to do four different demos. And I've actually decided-- Originally, I was thinking, "Oh, let me try to do something a little bit more business-focused." I've actually decided for most of these demos to actually make them not so business-related. They're actually going to be a little bit more kind of fun and the kind of things you could actually do in your personal life. And I've actually done this on purpose. And the reason why is that I've often found if you have a business demo that's kind of hitting the mark of what a company does but doesn't quite meet the mark, it's hard to take that last leap, right? But if you kind of go to something totally outside of the business realm, it kind of works the imagination of what's possible. So today, these are the four demos that I plan to show, kind of building, playing, and changing a game. We're going to play the game Snake, for any of you T-Mobile fans out there with the flip phones from back in the day. We're next going to plan a family weekend together, building a skill. We're going to build a website for a business. That one is kind of business-related. And then we're going to take a public recipe book, like an actual... When I say recipes, I mean like cookbook, let's make meals recipe, download it, and then do some data analysis against it. One of the great things about Codex is that it thinks harder than what you might be used to in the pastBut I also want to be explicit that as a part of thinking harder, sometimes it takes longer, too. So I've actually already pre-baked all four of these demos in advance. So I'm going to run some of these queries live, but you're also going to see me flip over to the preexisting version of these demos. And again, I'm doing that just because sometimes it takes a minute, two minutes, three minutes to come back with a response. I think it's well worth the wait. It's a much richer experience. But also don't want to keep folks waiting on this webinar, so we're going to flip back and forth between a live one running, and one that's already been created. So I think that is the end of my slides. So I'm going to go ahead and shift over to start sharing, rather than... One second here. Screen share. One second, y'all. Let me try this one more time. Here we go. Perfect. Awesome. So here is my screen. This is the Codex application. This is where we're going to be spending the rest of our time throughout this session. And we're going to go through each of the kind of demonstrations that we talked about earlier. Before I actually jump into an example of one of these demonstrations, I'll just start with something simple. So I'll just say, "Hello, Codex." Something easy, right? And it will get back to me with some response, right? So it's very similar to ChatGPT in that you have kind of all of your windows and your conversations on the left-hand side, and then on the right-hand side, you've got your conversation and your chat, right? So very similar to what you're used to. There's a couple of bells and whistles that you might not have seen before. So I'm going to just call them out now. Similar to ChatGPT, there's a plus sign here, and in that plus sign, there's a few different features you can do. You can upload photos and files. You can add plugins. So we already talked about plugins before. This is where you connect to other apps. Two of the ones that I've already set up are around sending an email with Gmail and using the computer. We'll show an example of a couple of those later. And then you also have the ability to change the speed. It does cost more tokens to run in a faster mode, but for the purposes of this demo, I'm going to run in fast mode. And then if you're running something that's a query, if you have a query that's a little bit more of a plan rather than actually doing something, highly encourage you to turn on plan mode. So plan mode kind of thinks before it actually builds. It asks you questions. It's more of a back-and-forth conversation rather than just building something on your behalf. Also want to talk briefly about permissions. You can set default permissions. You can set Codex to automatically review. This actually sets up another Codex agent to check any time that Codex is doing something on your behalf on your computer, and it checks, is this something that should require the user to explicitly give you permission, or should I just let this pass? And again, you can completely customize exactly what the permissions look like. You get a little window here that tells you the context window. In the past, by the way, I would've told you, "Hey, you should actually start a new conversation fairly regularly to reduce the context size." In this case, Codex is so good at understanding long-running context, I rarely have ever started a new chat. So you actually don't need to do that in Codex. You can set the model to whatever model you want, and you can set the reasoning effort to whatever you want as well. So lots of different bells and whistles, but now we can actually dive in and start to click around. So the first one, I'm going to make this really, really simple. I'm just going to ask it, "Hey, create the snake game." And that's it. Hit Enter, and it's going to start thinking, and it's going to start making updates and working through it. So you can see it's working, saying, "I'm going to build a playable snake game in a small local web app." Again, you don't have to know what that means, right? You don't have to understand, oh, this is a local web app versus a web-hosted web app. All you know is that it's building the game for you. And as it's running, it's going to start building out different files. If you want to see the files it's starting to generate, you can click on this list of files, and you see exactly what's been generated here. And so it's building this game. It's understanding exactly what's going on. One nice thing as I build this game out is that I have the ability to make changes. So let's say I want to add in a number of changes. It's not done thinking yet, right? It's still building the game. It's still working. But let's say that I want to add in more stuff. Let's say I want to change the background color every time I get an apple. I hit Go, and it runs. The beautiful thing about this, by the way, is that it's not actually going to change my prompt. It's just set this up as an example of what it can do, right? So we call this kind of the queue mode. When I ask it to change the background color, it gets added to the queue, and once it's done with this original command, it's going to start working on the next one. Maybe I want to add in something like obstacles or walls. Great. It's going to do that, too. Maybe I want to add in multiple foods besides just an apple. Great. It's going to do that, too. And so now it's got a list of three different commands that it's working on. And you can see all the files that it's generating here, too, right? So, bit by bit, it's working through this list. It's creating the snake game. Once that's done, it's going to go to the next one, then the next one, then the next one. And again, you as a user don't have to understand exactly what it's doing. All you have to know is that you've asked it in plain human English what to do, and it's off to the races building whatever you're interested in. As we wait for this to complete, I'm going to just show you an example of a preexisting chat that shows you what's possible. So if I go back up to the very beginning, I say, "Hey, create the snake game." And again, it goes through these 39 messages, where it goes through exactly what to do, how it's going to build it, et cetera. And again, each step of the way, it did all this without you having to worry about it. You don't have to understand exactly what happened with these 39 messages, just you asked it to create the game, and it did. Same thing here when I asked it, "Hey, change the background color." It did thatAdd obstacles, it did that too. Add multiple foods, it did that too. So every step of the way, I'm asking it for a command, and then it finishes. One of the things you might notice is that it gives you a little bit of detail on what it did Okay, well, now the board is going to have three foods at once, and they're no longer just apples. I have apples, pears, berries, oranges, et cetera. And you can see these references to what it's building. So I, as a user, can click on something like this game.js and see the code that was generated. Again, if you don't understand the code, that's not a problem. All you have to understand is how to play the game and how to experience it. You can even see this progress markdown file, which is just, again, a text-based file explaining how the game works. But maybe most interestingly, you can actually play the game directly in Codex. So if I click index.html, that's where the game actually lives. If I click on that file, you can see I was playing this earlier. So I'm actually moving my arrow keys. When I get a fruit, it changes color, just like I asked. You can see walls there, too. And now I'm playing the game. Great. So all of this just works. And the beautiful thing about Codex is you don't have to go to a browser to try playing a game or running an application. You don't have to go anywhere else. It can all live inside of Codex. And that experience just really allows users to kind of stay in the same place and make the changes they need. What's also nice is, as I play this game, I might say, "Maybe I want this change, maybe that change," and it's really easy to make those updates. So that's an example of playing a game. You saw the ability to do that, to add multiple things to what you're requesting. But then I also want to show an example of an automation. So we talked about that ability to automate. So I can click on an automation, and when I click Automate, I'm going to click New Automation in the top right. And I'm going to select a project. In this case, I'm going to use that snake game we were playing earlier. And I'm going to say, "Test this game and ensure there are no new bugs. If there is an issue, go ahead and fix it." So really simple automation. I can set the exact schedule that I want. Maybe I want this to run every day at 9:00, or maybe I want it only on weekdays, or I can set a very custom time of when I want the automation to run. And once this is working, then you can set the automation, and it does something on your behalf. So again, you think about that agentic capability inside of Codex. It's that ability to not just run something when you ask it, but run something just on your behalf, even if you've never requested it. That's really the power of this experience. So that was an example of playing a game. The next thing I want to do is just give an example of starting to build out a skill. So for this one, we're going to take advantage of weekend activities. So if I'm trying to plan out my family's weekend, how am I going to do that? One way is by building a skill that can repeatedly try to plan out the family's plans. So what I'm going to do, again, I'll start with a chat. You have the ability to pick a specific folder and work off of that, but again, I'll start in a chat, and then we'll show an example of folders or projects in just a second. So I open up a new chat window here, and I'm going to give it some information. "Hey, I got two kids under five in the DC area. Go ahead and look up some fun activities for this upcoming weekend. Prioritize activities that are unique, maybe once a year events, for example, and account for the weather forecast in your recommendations." So again, it's going to start thinking. It's going to start trying to understand what it's going to do. I'm realizing when I tried this last night, I did not actually have the skill created, but this is actually a good example of how smart Codex is. Because I've actually already created this skill, I created this skill yesterday, it actually can find the skill and leverage it. So let me actually run to an example before I created the skill. Sorry about that. Let me go up here. This is what I ran yesterday. I asked it, "Hey, I got two kids under five," exact same prompt. It went through a bunch of thinking, searched the web, searched the web some more, looked up a bunch of different details about the weather forecast, and then it found a few different, interesting activities that my family could do this weekend in DC. And then what I did is I used a skill called the Skill Creator to build a skill. So it's a little meta. You're using a skill called Skill Creator to build a new skill. So I said, "Hey, please create a skill to run this search where a user picks a city, gives information on their goals for the weekend, and then saves that recommendation in a table, like an event name, description, location, et cetera." So then it's going to go through the process of actually building out a skill. And when we say a skill, really all we mean are just simple instructions to Codex to understand what to do. So I can click on this skill.md file to understand better exactly what happened. So all this skill did is it created a weekend family finder with an overview to research upcoming weekend activities, to use live web research for events, scheduling, et cetera. It's going to ask the user for what city they're in, what's the upcoming weekend, what's their family's goals. There's a workflow for the search and recommendation rules. You can change any of this. If you have a specific way of how you want to look for only certain activities, maybe your family only wants to be inside or only wants to be outside. Maybe if the weather is above 60 degrees, you want to be outside, but otherwise inside. Whatever the particular rules you have, you can either update them directly in this file or just ask Codex to make the changes. So you could go in and say, "Hey, Codex, please update the weekend family finder skill to have XYZ logic." And again, it's all in just plain simple English to get the outcome you want. Once that skill is created, you can then call it and say, for example, "Hey, now plan a weekend in Denver for a young couple." And instead of just starting from scratch with nothing, it's going to know and understand exactly what's in that skill, the rules that are in that skill, and go through it in more detail to look up the weather and make an appropriate planNow, this is a relatively simple example because theoretically, Codex doesn't need necessarily a skill to be able to look up family events for the weekend. But think about all the particular workflows that you have and that you run every day. Maybe there's some Friday report you create that always has exactly input from this person, and then it has to go through this process, and then something else. That's the kind of thing that you could start to codify in either one skill or several skills, and then use Codex Automations to automate that process in a more regular way. Right? So you're beginning the process of reducing the amount of friction you have, reducing the amount of rework you have, and automating as much of this as possible. Awesome. So that was an example of building out a skill. The next thing I want to do is show an example of building a website for a business. In this case, the website I have is for a flower shop. So if, for example, I go to a project, and this is actually the first time that I'm using a project. The other two things I did were just using regular chats. And chats can be great, right, if you don't have a specific folder. But I've actually already pre-built a folder with more information on this flower shop. I already have images for the website. I've already got the marketing copy for the website. So in this case, rather than just start in a regular chat, I want Codex to have all the context of that particular folder. So I'm going to go ahead and click on a new chat in this flower shop. And then I can go over here to the side panel, and I can see a list of, you can already see some of these, some of the relevant files. So if I go over here and I click into here and go into All Files, you're going to see Assets and Content. Right? You're going to get a list of images and a list of content. By the way, I had Codex build this, right? Because I don't own a flower shop. I don't know the marketing copy for a flower shop. But yesterday, as I was preparing for this, I asked Codex, "Hey, Codex, can you please create some images of a flower shop, a local flower shop? Create some marketing copy for a local flower shop." And it did all of that. These images that you're about to see are generated by Codex. These are AI-generated images with a storefront, a signature bouquet, wedding installation. And then there's also content that's giving the user more information about what should go into each thing. Right? You can imagine if you already had a website, you could point Codex to that website and say, "Hey, Codex, please bring back all the relevant text from this website, download the HTML, and then make these changes to it." Right? But in this case, all we had was just some plain text here of what we wanted in the website, and then some of these AI-generated images as well. So once we have this, right, we've got the generated images, we've got the content. I'm going to go ahead and ask Codex to create this beautiful website. So I say, "Hey, I run a local flower shop in Nashville, Tennessee. Create a beautiful website based on the information in this folder." Right? This is the beauty of using projects. I don't have to specify for it, "Hey, reference folder L3 flower shop." It already knows that that's the right folder because I started my Codex search in that folder. So now, once again, it's going to go through this process of looking up exactly what's in the folder, look through those images, look through all of that text copy for what's supposed to be on the website, and use those things to generate this website experience. So again, it's going through all those details bit by bit, and again, making that process much more automated, much more seamless than it was in the past. While we're waiting for this to run, I'll go ahead and just show you kind of the pre-baked version of what this looked like. So I'll go here to this request. I have the exact same request I had before. "Hey, I run a local flower shop in Nashville, Tennessee. Create a beautiful website based on the information here." Again, it's going to go through all that information. It's going to generate an HTML file that actually allows me to view the website. And then while we're at it, just to show you that ability to create new images, I'll say, "Hey, can you create one more backup image that might go well?" And it goes ahead and creates this, too. So the ability to generate images, we just launched in Codex. So you can build new images in Codex. Obviously, if you already have your own images, you can upload that into a folder, connect Codex to that folder or project, and use that just the same. The next thing I want to show is an example of plugins. Before I actually show this one, I just want to go up to the top here and click on Plugins. If you're wondering, how do you add more plugins? You click on this Plugins button, and then you'll see a list of different plugins you can connect to. So you can see this plus sign associated with Gmail. So yep, we're already connected to Gmail. If I wanted to add another one, maybe let's say I wanted to connect to Slack, I can click Install Plugin, and then it's going to give me more information on reminding me, yep, you're always in control. The apps may have some elevated risk. There's data being shared in this app. All the important things you need to know. And when I click Install Slack, it will install the connectivity between Slack and this Codex application. And by the way, if you're wondering, which Gmail did it add to, right? Because I actually have multiple Chrome profiles on my computer. The answer is that it is related to whatever email this is tied to. So I logged into Codex using a ChatGPT workspace. In that workspace, I was logged in as this user. And so I automatically inherit that user's information when I log in here. So it makes it really easy to connect to these applications because you just authenticate into those same applications using your user's profile you already have set up. Makes it more secure. It also makes it really easy for you as a user. So you don't have to know any code, right? You just click that plus button, you click Install, and you can bring in all these different applications. We also talked about skills. I just want to briefly show this, too. There's a lot of different skills that we provide out of the box. We have a doc skill, a PDF skill, an image gen skill, a skill creator, and a skill installer. We have a bunch that we already pre-created. And then you can see a number that I've created for myself as wellSo again, encourage you to check out skills, check out plugins, as you're building out these experiences. So with that in mind, actually, as I was doing that, I'm realizing this has completed. So that's great. Again, I can click on index.html, and I see an example of what this website looks like. Looks like Harp &amp; Petal in Nashville, a fake company, "Seasonal flowers gathered with heart." I can see exactly what's going on, on this webpage. And let's say that I like this webpage the way that it is. Now I can use that plugin. So I'll call the Gmail plugin, right? And again, if you're wondering how did I do that, you either can use the dollar sign and you'll see a list of all the skills and plugins that pop up, or you can use the slash button, and you'll see, again, a list of even more, all the settings, as well as the skills, as well as the plugins. So I try dollar sign, and I start typing in Gmail, and already it narrows down to the four that have Gmail in them. So now I can click on Gmail. That's the plugin. And I'll ask it this question. In this case, what I want it to do, is to please email the webpage copy and our summary document to my team, marketing@theaicompany.org, with instructions on how they can run it. And so this is going to go. Again, it's going to think, and it's going to take action. It's going to draft up this email, and it's going to actually send it. In the spirit of staying in Codex, I won't show it, but I assure you, I'm on marketing@theaicompany.org. I got that email yesterday, and I'll get the email again when I run this. So again, you have that ability not just to read information or summarize information or automate processes, you can take action to send emails, send Slack messages, update documents, and really kind of provide more of that end-to-end experience all using Codex. So you can see it's working its magic. It's making sure the connector is working. It's sending the email, thinking about what it's going to do. It's reviewing to make sure that it is approved to send that email. And then ultimately, we'll send it in just a second. The one other thing I want to show you on this website example, this webpage example... Oh, yeah, there we go. So it worked for 58 seconds. It sent the email with a zip website and run instructions. And then you can see exactly what it sent along the way. One other thing I want to show you when I click back to index.html, is that we have the ability to really see these webpages in more detail. So I can refresh this if I want to. I can go to different parts of this webpage. So just like we saw with the snake game, I can click on that index.html to kind of see the browser directly inside of here. And it makes that experience, again, really all the more powerful. So the final demo that I want to show, right? We've built a game. We've built a skill to plan out our family's weekend. We've built a webpage for a small business. The final thing I want to do is kind of get a little bit more into the business world of showing some examples of data analysis. Right? And so I'm using kind of something fun with meal prep and recipes that already previously exist. But still want to show kind of the ability to get more work done. So to do that, I'm going to go ahead and click in this recipe book example. What you'll notice, by the way, when I go to the file here, is that there are no files in here. This is a completely empty folder. There's nothing in here yet. But I'm going to ask it to start populating things. So I'm going to ask it, "Hey, please go to this webpage, download all the recipes, and store them in a folder structure that makes sense." So when I click on all files, once this has started to run, it's going to start populating this folder with new content. So again, you can decide what folder you go to. It could be an empty folder. And you have the ability to add in more information to it. While this is running, I just want to call out, this is a publicly available website of a kid's cookbook from USDA. They encourage people to download it. It is totally public. So I'm not infringing on any copyright here. This is very much a public website that wants you to take their recipes. And it's sort of there for everyone. So it's going to go through, again, USDA. It's going to download all the content from USDA. And then from there, we're going to be able to do more things with it. So you can already see this USDA page HTML, where it is kind of building out the critical information associated with this page. So you can see kind of a copy of what this looks like. You can see different recipes here. Some sliders, chicken penne, a salad, et cetera. You get the idea. So it's already built in this HTML page, and now what Codex is going to start doing in a second is starting to build out more files as well. So you can see it just generated this folder of USDA recipes. You can see a list of the cookbook, these recipes that exist as well, and then it's going to start actually populating these recipes with more information. So again, this was a completely empty folder two minutes ago, and now it is a folder full of information, HTML files, PDF files of the different recipes. You get the idea, right? This whole experience, it just generated here from scratch. So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to start asking it for some data analysis. Now this time, again, I might have to show an already existing chat, just for the sake of time. But if I ask it, for example, "Go ahead and create a CSV file with the metadata of every recipe," and then I give it some columns that I want it to create. So I'll add that in. Again, it's not going to actually change anything. It's going to fully run this prompt we had before, and then only when that's done, it'll then start on this next prompt. And then what I'm going to do next is I'll do some pretty simple correlation analysis, that you might do as a data scientist.So I'll go back over here to a previously existing thread. This was different folder, but exact same prompt. Go to this webpage, store it in a folder that makes sense. It went ahead and did that, and then I said, "Great. Now create a CSV file with all of these different columns." It does that too. Just to give you a sense of what that looks like, you can see the CSV file right here. So it creates that no problem. And you can see the recipes, the number of ingredients, the cook time, the prep time, the number of surveys, and the meal type. So it builds out a CSV file on our local computer in the folder where we were directly working in. Works great. And then after that, I'm just going to ask it a pretty simple data science question. Oh, actually one thing I had to do was just make one of the columns numeric instead of string. Easy. No problem. And then I'm asking it this data science question. Is there a correlation between cook time and prep time? Is there a correlation between the number of ingredients and how long it takes to cook? Right? Turns out there's actually not much correlation. It gives us a couple of simple graphs. This basically means not much correlation at all. And then it gives you an explanation of that as well. And if I wanted to see more details, I would have a Python script that gives me that information too. So again, the key theme as a user is that you do not have to understand code. You don't have to know how to write code. With the power of leveraging plugins, leveraging skills, leveraging automations, and just the ability to prompt it with clear descriptions of what you're looking for, Codex is an amazingly powerful tool that allows you to do just about anything. Right? Which again, goes back to our central theme. Everyone can do almost everything in Codex. So with that, I will pause, and I believe there's a Q&amp;A portion, and happy to answer questions here. Hey, Aaron. Hey, everyone. It's Jane from the OpenAI Academy team, and thank you so much for, well, A, thank you so much, Aaron, for walking us through all the different types of use cases for Codex. I think we all walked away with something that we can get started on right away. And then, B, thank you everyone for your thoughtful questions. We've got quite a few, so let's just get started. Let's start really simple and broad, Aaron. What is Codex good at? You walked us through a lot, but if you had to boil it down to when should I use Codex, what would you say? Yeah, it's a good question. And one of the things that makes this trickier is that we are increasingly making ChatGPT better for developers and increasingly making Codex better for knowledge workers, right? So the old paradigm, the easy answer I would've given you two months ago is, oh, developers go to Codex, knowledge workers go to ChatGPT. That paradigm is very much shifting, where the goal is that both places will be excellent places for agentic work. What I would say is that if most of the work you're doing is based on files that live on your local computer, the Codex app is amazing, and I strongly recommend using that for developer work, for knowledge work. That's definitely the spot. If you're doing really intense development, also definitely the spot for Codex. If, on the other hand, you are sort of collaborating with a big team, and most of the work you're doing is not really based so much in files, but just kind of quickly asking questions against the model, ChatGPT is still a great place for that overall collaboration. But again, we're muddying the waters because we want both tools to be excellent at kind of all use cases and all personas. Great. In that kind of vein, someone asked a really funny, or not funny, I thought it was a fun question. So this is from CSB, and they said, so going back to your first demo, "How did Codex know what the snake game was in the first place? Your prompt simply said, 'Create a snake game.' The prompt didn't provide any context or details about what the game is. So how did it know where to get started and what to build?" That is a great question that I should've probably explained a little bit better. So, our models are trained on the corpus of human knowledge, or something roughly mirroring the corpus of all human knowledge. And it just turns out that colloquially, as we say, the snake game, there's actually a lot written about and talked about and discussed about across human knowledge since the '90s or so, whenever the snake game came out, that that is the snake game, right? So you can imagine if you Googled the snake game, or if you asked your friend, or a generation that grew up around playing that game, "Hey, what's the snake game?" We all kind of generally know that is the snake game. You bring up a really good point, that if it were something that were more obscure, or if you said something that doesn't exist, like the monkey game or something, maybe there is a monkey game, but assuming there's no monkey game- ... and you just said that, it probably wouldn't know what to do. It would take a guess or would ask you for clarification. But the snake game is, it's like saying Tetris or chess, right? It is kind of a known thing, and that's how it knew. Yeah. I just attended a building kind of Codex hackathon session with some students a few weeks ago, and they were kind of stuck on what to build, and they were really inspired by the games that they know and love. And so they took that as a moment to just rebuild some word games that are really popular these days. And, I think that was a really cool way for them to learn how to nudge, how to build things in a certain direction based on what you know and what can be familiar, can be a great first step to working with Codex and learning how to work around these tools. So-Try your own version of that, whether it's a snake game or a popular game that you might be playing at home. Absolutely. All right. Let's talk about context. So we got a question from Shailendra saying, "Can Codex use previous chat history to correlate context in the current session? For example, if in an earlier session I used Codex for code review, and when I want to analyze the new bug, can I ask Codex to use my earlier code review session in my current bug analysis?" Yeah. So, short answer is yes, and long answer is it's going to be even better in the future, right? So, what is definitely possible today is that if you're in the same folder or the same project, it has access to all those other chats, right? If you were in a totally separate project, your chat might not have the information from that other project, which in some ways might actually be good because, if one folder is dealing with one application, another folder is dealing with another kind of set of code, you actually sometimes don't want them to communicate or have that kind of memory of each other. But in general, we are moving towards a world where both Codex and ChatGPT have a really firm understanding of the memory of all the other conversations and just kind of the key learnings from all of them. So that is absolutely possible and definitely the intent of kind of giving you the power of using it over time. Great. We have a question from Aman. We get this question a lot, actually, talking about, when you're a non-technical learner, if you're coming from a world that you don't know any code and you are a little confused about what Codex means for you, do you have to learn code to understand it? Aaron, how would you recommend someone who is starting off, if they do want to learn a little bit of code to understand what's happening on the right-hand side of your screen, how can you use Codex to further develop your knowledge in the coding sphere? Totally. I'll actually answer this in both ways. One is assume you don't want to learn, and then the other is assume you do want to learn. So assuming you don't want to learn, hopefully that demonstration was clear enough that you do not ever have to learn code. You never need to write a line of code, right? My dirty secret is that I don't think I've written a line of code in four or five months. And the reality is that increasingly engineering teams regard themselves more highly the less code they write and the more time they spend kind of scaffolding information for others. So you definitely do not have to write a code or know how to write code, but there is a real benefit to understanding more of what it's doing, right? It's definitely a worthwhile goal to learn some of the basics of coding. So I would say two things. One is, there's actually a tremendous amount of helpful information in just reading that right side of the screen. So you can skip it if you want to, but if you click that expand option and just read all the messages individually, it's really powerful, and a great way to just get kind of introduced to what it's doing and how it works, et cetera. I'd also say the best way to learn how to code is to ask Codex questions, right? So as you're building out an app, just go through lines of code and add a little comment on a line and say, "Hey, I don't get this. Explain it." Or if you don't understand any code, you can say, "I don't understand anything. How would you walk me through this?" Or even, "Build me an app that walks me through this app." Right? We've certainly done that for trainings as well. So you can get really creative in what's the most effective way that you learn, and then ask Codex to produce content that ultimately guides towards that goal. Yeah, you can get super meta with this. Absolutely. All the different levels of... I don't even know how deep you can go, but that's a great tip. We got a question from Jose asking about using Codex in a professional setting, and so he's curious about how to use Codex to generate professional presentation decks that preserve the fonts, branding, color palette, and template of the reference materials that I upload. Is that something Codex can help with? It absolutely can. So it absolutely can today. Today, it definitely can. And we actually have a PowerPoint skill, so I strongly encourage you to, when you go to that skills menu, add that skill to your repertoire, right? And then you can call that skill. Or even if you just ask it for help with a PowerPoint, it's usually smart enough to know, "Oh, let me reference that skill," or refer that skill. So, you absolutely can do it, and I strongly recommend it. And I would say in general, we are building out in the next even just two to four weeks, some pretty major updates to the ability to handle files. So stay tuned on that, because we believe we're going to make some pretty big jumps there. But even in the meantime, right, you can upload an example of a PowerPoint you're working on and say, "Please use this font. Keep the font, keep the styling, keep everything, but make content related to XYZ." And it actually does a pretty decent job today, especially with that PowerPoint skill. And then in the future, we expect that to get much, much better. Awesome. Let's stay on the skills topic. I got two questions from Prabin. So the first question is, "Are skills installed in Codex automatically?" Like, does Codex come prepackaged with some skills, or do you have to manually download each one? So there are... I would think of skills in three different buckets. There's some that just come automatically. Skill Creator, Skill Installer I know come automatically no matter what. There's also a bunch, kind of the second tier, are ones that you see in that little skill menu. So when you click on Plugins, go to the little tab that says Skills. There's about 20 of them that just appear in your Codex windowAnd then kind of the third group are ones that are not already there, but you just create. So you saw an example of me creating the weekend family planner skill, right? So really easy to create them. And then maybe even a fourth bucket is that you can use a skill installer to say, "Hey, go to this Git repo, or go to this webpage where I see a skill on this page, and go ahead and install that skill." And it can do that too really easily. Great. And then his second question was, can we automate running skills? Yes. So, when I was showing you an example earlier of automating the checking of that snake game, really easy to just add in a skill to that. Just like in your regular prompt, you do that dollar sign or the slash to add in a skill or a plugin, same thing with an automation. You could say, "Hey, I want to automate the weekend family planner, giving me a plan every week or every weekend in DC," or whatever city you live in. So you would just call the skill inside the automation with a dollar sign or a slash, click Save, and then it would send you whatever you're looking for at whatever cadence you want. Amazing. As we were talking, we got, like, 50 more questions, so I'm just trying to- Oh ... read them all. This one's from a student. Can OpenAI Codex help a student doing research work? If yes, to what extent can it assist in research writing, organizing ideas, or technical tasks? Absolutely. I think it can definitely help with that. I mean, our goal is that it can help with anything, or almost everything. So certainly research work would fall under that bucket. One of the things I showed at the very beginning was you can set the reasoning effort on that kind of mid bar. So I had it set to medium, but if you have a really intense research question, you might want to set it to extra high. You might want to upload relevant papers that you're working on or that you're thinking about, ask it for idea exploration, or give it a paper and ask it to be kind of your sparring partner. I've seen that be successful as well. Any data analysis you're doing, I'm sure there's some intense Python scripts or Stata scripts you could run or SAS scripts, all using Codex. So I would encourage you to get creative in the ways you can use it. You could also just prompt Codex, "Hey, here's a research paper I'm working on, or the research effort I'm working on. What are 10 ways that you could help?" And it'll kind of get the conversation started of what are some of those impactful ways. But definitely can play a role. Great. And then I have a question that I can answer myself, so Aaron, let me give you a little breather. I got a question from Susan saying, "Can you do a training just for teachers? I'm a secondary ed science and social studies teacher, and I've been making interactive tools for learning using AI to help me. I want to know more about Codex and how it can help someone like me, a teacher who wants to use AI in her teaching and curriculum." Thank you, Susan, for joining and for your curiosity. We do have a whole separate section of the Academy where we create content for educators, both in the K to 12 and higher ed space. And we're constantly rolling out new trainings, specifically geared towards your audience. So definitely recommend checking that out and staying on top of those events because we're kind of always pushing out new content there. So thanks for joining, and hope to see you at the next one. Okay, Aaron, back to you, and let's just kind of wrap it up with two more questions. I did get a few questions about sharing the work that you're creating on Codex, like whether it's with a friend or a collaborator at work. So can you talk a little more about shareability and how folks can collaborate together on Codex? Yeah. So we're definitely building out kind of more of those sharing capabilities. I would say Codex is really primarily now geared to be your personal agent, right? Getting your work done. So at least in the Codex app, there's not really a concept of sharing because it's your local files, your local work. What you absolutely can do is once Codex builds that website or once it builds that Python script or builds that game, you can send it to someone with a Gmail plugin, or a Slack plugin, or it all lives on your local computer. You could literally just upload the files it created to someone else and then share manually. So all that is absolutely possible. In addition, in Codex Cloud, which is kind of the ChatGPT version of Codex or Codex that sits in ChatGPT Enterprise, that can be shared with anyone inside of your workspace. And then in addition to that, I would say as we bring more agentic experiences to ChatGPT Enterprise, our goal is that you can share Codex-like experiences from ChatGPT, just like you do today with any other conversation. Amazing. And I don't know, Anam, you have asked so many thoughtful questions, but you asked a really good last question to end on. So I am going to just close out with this one. Aaron, what makes Codex stand out compared to other AI tools and applications out there? I know there's a lot that people have to choose from, and I think that we would definitely recommend trying all different types of surfaces and tools that you can get your hands on. But what do you think makes Codex unique, and what do you love about using Codex? Totally. I love Codex. I use it all the time. I very much still love ChatGPT, but I probably have10x my Codex usage and probably reduced my ChatGPT usage by half or so over the last couple of months. It really just is the place where I get my work done. And it feels like my coworker, that I can dump thoughts into, get really compelling information out of. So, for me personally, it's been just a total game changer. It helped me do things that were not possible before. In terms of how it actually compares and stack ranks, to Jane's point, I encourage you to use many different tools. I would say, I certainly could point you to many benchmarks that our models have top performance on. I believe that our harness that kind of orchestrates what the model should do is the best in the world. But it's hard to quantify exactly why that's the case. So for me, it's more just the feel more than anything else. I have used other products in my spare time, and I always go back to Codex in my personal life. I certainly go back to Codex in my professional life. I encourage you to try them all, and I hope and believe you will come to the same conclusion I do, that Codex is the one that just gets your work done the best and the fastest. Thanks so much, Aaron. Any parting words? I think I would love to encourage everyone to just poke around with Codex- Yeah ... and maybe try one of Aaron's many demos that he walked through today. We will have this recording available up on the Academy at the same event page link in a few hours. So if you missed out on any of the beginning or whatever, want to just slow it down, please check back. But yeah, Aaron, any final parting advice to get started? Yeah, my final thought is, I'm stealing this from a coworker who stole it from someone else, that you don't get fit by reading about working out. Wow. You get fit by going to the gym. That's powerful. There's a similar concept here, that you can read whatever AI books you want, you can listen to whatever podcasts you want. They're all great. But you're only going to really learn the frontier of what AI can do by just going in and trying things. So I would encourage you to have patience, have humility, try things, make mistakes, and hopefully have a wonderful experience doing it. That's great. All right. Thanks again, Aaron, for everything today. Thank you all so much for joining us, and we will see you at the next one. Bye, everyone. Bye.

</details>
