<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/codex-for-admins-and-it-2026-03-26 -->

# Codex for Admins and Security

<!-- vimeo: 1177347189 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

<!-- vid-ref:1177347189 -->
[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1177347189)


So, hey everybody, I'm Charlie Weems. I'm the head of our Codex Deployment Engineering team here at OpenAI. I've been working with Codex customers since the very beginning. And we've added a lot of enterprise features for admins and IT that I kind of want to walk through today and just show the typical journey of getting Codex set up, just as a very pragmatic session to show both what's available to do, and then just how to do it yourself. Quick agenda of what we're going to cover today. We're going to chat about what Codex is, just to kind of level set and, just for those unfamiliar, we can get a little bit more familiar with it. I'm going to talk about managing access to your team, the different authentication methods we provide, our different admin governance tools, and then flag some resources for you. And we'll do some Q&amp;A throughout the session and at the end. Please drop your questions in the chat, obviously, as we dive in. Cool. All right. So let's start with just kind of what is Codex? Kind of taking a step back here. We look at kind of three phases of software development. There's a kind of code complete phase, where AI was helping us do tab completion, writing the next line of code, and we could do maybe 30 seconds of work at a time or a minute of work at a time. Then there's kind of the pair programming phase, where we're using CLI tools, or having a pair coding assistant kind of embedded within our IDE. And as models have gotten better, we've really seen this kind of third phase, which is this agentic delegation phase, where you're not really reading along with the model as it writes the task. You're actually in parallel delegating a whole bunch of tasks to the model and watching it work on multiple at the same time, checking back in, kind of acting as the executive while the rest of them are actually doing the implementation work for you. And that's why we've kind of been building Codex as an app that we consider an agentic development environment. It's really built around this concept of you can have many parallel tasks running at once. And we've built a specific app for that, which I'll show in a second. We also know, obviously, writing code is not the only part of the software development life cycle, right? So only about 16% of developer time is actually spent writing in code. And so Codex is actually a very generalizable tool that helps throughout all the different parts of this software development life cycle. It can help you with the planning, the design phase, testing, review, documentation, and deployment, to smooth out the rest of your software development life cycle. Because we know essentially, if you make the build part much more effective, but don't kind of widen the pipe of these other parts of review and deploy, then you are still fundamentally kind of capacity constrained. And we want to remove those kind of bottlenecks and just make it easy to deploy end-to-end. Just about how Codex works, it's a little bit different from other coding tools. We're not just like a fork of an IDE. We're not just like a CLI. We've actually built a kind of a unified agent harness at the OS level. And then this exposes a common set of tools and permissions boundaries to agents of the models that act within that. And then we surface that through different clients. So we have a CLI tool that sits on top of this agent harness. But we also have a series of IDE extensions. So if you want to use us in JetBrains, for example, or if you want to use us in VS Code, or any of the VS Code kind of forks, we have these sort of native embeds that we do there with rich UIs, not just a CLI embed. And then we also have the Codex app, which is kind of our take at a whole new developer experience, just completely focused on agentic delegation from the ground up, and we can talk about that a little bit as well. Of course, it's integrated with all the tools that you use, so you can connect in different tools into Codex to help with other parts of the software development life cycle. Just to kind of level set here, your enterprise data, it always remains private. You can observe adoption and impact. We have tools to see this. We have full auditability of users and agent activity through our audit logs. And we're also the only agent that actually provides a truly safe OS level sandbox, that protects you kind of at the OS level, just against the different actions that an agent can take. So I think that we have a very compelling security story there. Let's jump in and talk about managing team access. And actually, before I do that, let me step back and give a quick tour of each of these. So just to kind of pull up VS Code here, you can see we have a VS Code extension installed. We can pair program with it in the sidebar here. We also have a CLI app, and you can kind of prompt it here and go back and forth. And then lastly, we also have the Codex app itself, which is another surface in here. And you can see this is where we have many agentic tasks going on the side. As we get requested for approval by different things for the agent, it will ask us and prompt us to wait for approval. We also have the ability to do things like install different apps and plugins from our directory, and we have a series of automations. You can set up automations that run different prompts at a scheduled cadence. So really very much focused on how can we do agentic delegation, just to give you a sense of what each of these things are. So let's talk about managing team access to each of these tools. So to invite your team, if you have a ChatGPT Enterprise workspace, your team members may already have access to Codex. It follows the same kind of data permissions profile as ChatGPT access. They can sign in with ChatGPT. You can control this in workspace settings. If you go to permissions and look for the Codex features, you can turn on this toggle, allow members to use Codex local. That lets them use any of the kind of local services like the CLI, the IDE, or the app. And then there's also a toggle to turn on Codex Cloud, which is our cloud execution environment. This is where OpenAI runs a container, where Codex operates, has your code base inside of it, and allows you to do these asynchronous kind of remote delegation tasks. And you can just enable these for your team in workspace settings so that they can get set up.You can sign in to authenticate. So ChatGPT, Codecs supports ChatGPT sign-in. You can also have your developers use an API key if you want that kind of granular control and just like mint API keys for folks. But we typically recommend ChatGPT sign-in because it's a very smooth, just kind of OAuth process. You can have them go in through your SSO, and when they click on that button, they'll be redirected through your ChatGPT SSO process, and right back into the app or the CLI or the ID to just use it through your workspace. So your sign-in method really determines which workspace controls, retention, and data policies apply. So if you're using your API org, obviously the data retention policies, the residency, everything that you've set up in there is what applies, and if you're using the ChatGPT, all the residency policies and anything you've set up in that org is what applies. So that's a key difference there. And then just to reiterate, for most users, folks are signing in with ChatGPT. It's the easiest way to go. API key can make sense if you really know what you're doing and you specifically want to use an API org. So Codecs caches these credentials locally, and it stores them in a file or the OS credential store, like locally. And admins can basically enforce a login method or restrict users to a specific workspace. So if you don't want people logging into other workspaces from their local, you want them to use a specific workspace, you can configure that and set that up. And then for remote or headless environments, Codecs supports device code authentication. So rather than just signing with ChatGPT, we'll provide you with a device code that you can then kind of paste back into your local browser flow, and log in, even if you're in a headless environment or an environment where you can't use a web browser. So let me just take a look and step back here before we go on, because I want to show exactly what this looks like inside of ChatGPT. So you can see here, I'm in a demo account. I've gone to my workspace settings, and I'm in permissions and roles down here. And the first thing I'm going to do is I can look at the workspace level settings. There are a whole bunch of settings in here. If I type in Codecs, we can search down to the actual section here. And the ones that I would say are really the key ones to make sure are on are allow members to use Codecs Local, and if you want them to use the cloud delegation, allow them to use Codecs Cloud. You can also configure things like do you want to allow device code authentication for the CLI or as login. And there are a few other settings down here like, do you want to allow the Codecs Slack app to work in a certain way, or do you want to allow members to use Codecs Security, the security product? Do you want to allow a Codecs agent in the cloud to be able to access the internet and pull down dependencies? So you can configure all of these. And these are the workspace level permissions, so they're the default for everyone. But we also have RBAC here, so we can go in and set up a few different custom roles. So for example, I could create a custom role that's something like Codecs full access. I can give it a description, save this role, and once it's created, we'll be able to go in and click on different permissions that we want to add into this role. So this allows us to configure a bespoke interface for the actual permission. So if I go into Codecs full access here, you can see we get the same permissions tab panel, where I can have a separate set of permissions just for people who are in this kind of role. And then I can tie different groups to this. So if I want to assign a group, I can click on this, and I can pull in our R&amp;D team, for example, or our solutions engineering team, tag them on the role, and all these are groups that you can SCIM provision users into. So if you have an SSO set up where you have, for example, a distribution list, and you can use that to push users via SCIM into ChatGPT, you can just assign them into this group, and that's a very common workflow for admins, so that you're assigning people into a specific set of permissions with Codecs. So just wanted to cover on that and show a little bit of what that looks like. All right. Let's jump back in. We're going to talk about this a little bit more in a second. So as I mentioned, we have enterprise governance controls. With admin controls, you have the ability to standardize usage and enforce policies. You can set workspace controls like RBAC, ZDR, audit logs. We also have mechanisms to contain or isolate agent actions, so what permissions can the agent run? We have detailed logs of agent actions that come out through our logging platform. And then for security, you can do things like IP allowlisting. You can do telemetry with redaction and controls. You can have code base indexing and exclusions. And then you can also set authentication, like sign in with ChatGPT or API keys and manage whether or not you want to have headless auth happening. As I mentioned, you can roll this out through RBAC, and this is a very common pattern. So you can use custom roles and groups to scope Codecs access or create a broad group that gives everybody access to specific default features.So the next thing I want to talk about is kind of controlling the agent. We've been talking about sort of how do we provision access and how do we give users access. Now that users are kind of up and running and they're able to sign in with ChatGPT, often we'll want to tailor kind of the level of permissions that the agent itself has to run, not just our user permissions. And to kind of understand, I think OpenAI's approach here, it's fundamentally different from a lot of other agents. Many other agents will have controls at kind of the agent harness level. They'll control the agent's ability to read or write with a tool. For example, you'll be able to say, "My read tool is only able to read certain files." But that's kind of a harness-level enforcement. And the thing that we're noticing with models is they're getting so capable that they're able to work around the harness and write their own scripts to do those things, even if the harness prevents it, which is why we've invested a lot of engineering effort and time into building a good OS-level sandbox. What this allows us to do is basically run Codex in its own kind of OS profile with a scoped set of file access, a scoped set of OS processes it can run, like network requests, and allows us to block at the OS level actions that the agent wants to take, say, writing a file or making a network request out to another site. And when that happens, we escalate the approval to the engineer to basically approve or deny. One other thing I'll call out here is that we're the only other agent platform to have a Windows native sandbox right now. We've actually built all of these controls directly into Windows. And so you get a consistent experience across Mac, Linux, Windows, where you're working here. To talk a little bit about the kind of enterprise approval modes that we have here, we have two. One is the approval mode. This really determines when Codex will ask for permissions, what's its kind of profile for when it will raise its hand and ask you for permissions. And then we also have the sandbox mode, and this determines whether or not Codex can read or write in the directory, and which files it can access. So for the approval mode, we have a few different modes here. You can set up Codex to basically request permission when it attempts to use any command that's not on a small list of trusted, safe commands. You can have it set up to prompt whenever a command fails due to a sandbox restriction. You can also set it up to basically run and have Codex decide when to ask permission. We've trained the model to understand what are dangerous kind of things to do. And this is our default, and we think it works really well. So you don't need to change this, but you can go back to these other methods, and you can scope which ones developers have available to them. For the sandbox mode, in read-only, it'll require permission if it attempts to write a file. So it'll raise its hand and ask the developer, "Hey, can we get permission to write this file?" For workspace write, it gets permission to write to all files in the current working directory, but if it goes outside of that, that's outside of the scope of the sandbox. And then the full access mode basically removes sandboxing altogether. You can turn this off, but it's useful in some environments if you have a fully encapsulated container and you just want to let the agent do anything. You can turn off the sandbox and let it do that. So we think this is important. It's good to set a boundary here between what's the appropriate level of permissions versus not. And we don't want to overwhelm developers with asking them to approve every single command, because the reality is then as human beings, we end up sort of over-approving. So we have to find the right level of signal-to-noise ratio. Now, all this can be governed by our managed policy rollout workflow. So just to call this out, you basically start with a baseline policy for most users, and then you can create a stricter or more permissive variant based on user groups where you need them. You can have one policy for everybody. You can also set a fallback policy for everybody else, like a default policy. And then you can also look up policies by user. And just to kind of demystify this a little bit, because I know this can be a lot to take in, I wanted to kind of show what this looks like. So over in the Codex admin, we can get there just by going to Codex and then clicking on the gear here. We have a Policies and Configurations tab down here at the bottom. And what this allows us to do is, based on RBAC group, we can set these different allowed sandbox modes and allowed approval policies or any other kind of config-enabled value that we want to put in here from Codex. So for example, if we want to only allow this group to have workspace write permissions and only allow the model to raise its hand on request when it needs help, we can set that up specifically for this group in here. And what this does is whenever a Codex CLI spins up or the Codex app spins up, or VS Code or wherever you're working, it will pull down this configuration and enforce it on the user so they're not able to override these things. And we can give them multiple options here. We could say maybe on request or never, if they want to deploy that. And then we're able to stack multiple policies on here. So we have a default kind of fallback with nothing set in it here, but I can add an additional policy here and have it apply to another group. And once I've done that, I'll probably want to understand what are the different policies that we have per group. So I can kind of evaluate this. I can look at these and put in by group and see like, okay, for Codex Demo, the effective policy is policy one for that. Or if I want to go in and see maybe my email, am I in this group, and kind of check it out, I can just look that up and see if I'm in the group and have any effective policy enforced on me. So this is a really just kind of powerful engine to deploy these settings out to everybody using Codex, and we think it's a good way to kind of manage and have governance across even just having multiple teams.All right. Let's jump back into it. So at the level below this admin managed policy, there's a lot of team configuration that teams will often do in Codex. And this allows Codex to perform in a certain way in their repository. This might be a little bit more technical and set up by a developer or a developer experience tooling team. So what does it allow you to do? It allows you to standardize Codex across your high traffic repositories. You can determine the config.toml which defines all of your MCP servers for that repo, and all of your other kind of settings. You can have specific rules that you add into the repository that determine specifically which prompts Codex will always need to ask permission for. You can also have skills that you set up in here that are common workflows, and the things that your team does on a repeated basis. So the purpose of team config really is not from the organizational admin management side, but really from the bottoms up team adoption side. How do we set standards and normalize things for our team so that Codex is performing in a standard way? It's all captured in this .codex folder here. And just to jump over and show, again, practically what this looks like to demystify a little bit. If I jump over into VS Code, you can see I have a repository I'm working on here, and I have a .codex folder that my team has checked into the repository. And this has a few different subdirectories in here. So I can set up things like skills, and in here I have a Datadog real user monitoring performance skill that'll go and pull from Datadog all of our recent performance reports and figure out if there are any app performance issues that we're hitting. And so this is an example of a common workflow that my team does that I've just checked into my repo. And now whenever anybody else clones down this repo, they'll get the same workflow in Codex. And just going back to the Codex app, just to show what this looks like. I can open a new task here, and I can do something like Datadog run performance, and it pops up right there in here. And then I can prompt and have it use this kind of Datadog workflow for me, just as an example. The other thing from a governance perspective that a lot of teams set in here are things like rules. And so obviously, Codex is an agent that can use the different command line tools you have available to it. And sometimes, we want it to be able to use those tools freely, and other times, we want to be able to restrict that. So just to show what this looks like. We're able to define these rule files that basically look at a prefix. So for this one, I want to restrict whether or not Codex asks me for permission before I do a Git push up to my repository. I do that by basically having a pattern that matches. It looks for any command that starts with Git push. And then I have a decision that it renders of, I'm going to prompt the user for this. I could also do something like always allow or never. I have a quick justification as a note on what this does. And then we actually have a rules engine that allows us to test out a few different commands that should match. So I put some examples in here, like it should match if we try to do Git push origin main, or if it does Git push force with lease, for example. But it shouldn't match on Git status. That's like a safe thing for Codex to write or Git pull. We're just pulling down from the repository. So we don't need to have it prompt us on that. So this allows very granular configuration at the repo level of which prompts Codex is able to run. And it really allows teams actually to go quite a lot faster because they can just determine what are our safe commands that are always allowed. And also they can go more safely because if there are sort of destructive actions that Codex can take, they can use these rules to basically block Codex from ever calling that. So that's a kind of key part of configuration that we recommend teams go and do as they set it up. Right. Back into the presentation here real quick, just to kind of cover off. As a practical setup for admins, this is kind of our list. If you go to developers.openai.com/codex, there's an admin setup guide in there, or if you just search for Codex admin setup, it should come up. But the long story short is, for this rollout, you want to choose your rollout model. Choose whether or not you're going to be deploying Codex local or also the cloud environment, or both. Confirm you have the right owners across your workspace admin, your IT, and governance. To do a lot of these settings, for example, in Codex, you need to have a ChatGPT workspace admin permission to do that. Often IT teams will get involved and want to understand kind of what are the permissions and how are we provisioning users. And then often there's an analytics or governance user who wants to understand how is the tool being used, how is it actually being rolled out. So making sure you have those stakeholders involved. Use RBAC to control who gets access and who can administer Codex. And this allows for a gradual stepped rollout. If you want to do that, you can just give individual users access in a small group, have them test it, and then use RBAC to deploy it to the larger org. Create a separate group as we saw, and just add everybody into that. You also want to set the managed config, the requirements, the rules, and the team defaults, and do this on your high traffic repositories. Maybe work with your AI DevX tooling team to do that. And then just go through, do a run-through of the sign-in, the access behavior, the managed configuration, before scaling your rollout. I think a lot of times, what we find orgs battling with is kind of how restrictive do we make the agent, versus how permissive, how many commands do we block, what sandbox mode do we set? And it's really determined by the profile of your code base and how sensitive the code base is. For a new project where it's net new, you can be very permissive. For something that's critical infrastructure, you may want to have a lot more approval involved. And so that's why we have this ability to customize both at the user level and the repo level.Let's talk about governance for a second here. So we have an analytics dashboard that gives you visibility into adoption. We also have an analytics API where you can pull structured daily metrics into your BI tools. And then we also have a compliance API where you can export detailed activity for logging and monitoring. And just to kind of go into this again, just to show where this is. So if I go over here and I'm back in my Codex settings page here, I can go into the Analytics tab here, and this shows me all of my daily users kind of by the different surfaces. So, most are using on the desktop app here. We have a CLI and our VS Code extension, also our cloud and our code review. This is a small demo environment, so not a ton of traffic in here. We can also see product activity, so we can track threads and turns by the individual client. So we can see here we have a lot more usage on the desktop app. This shows kind of the quantity of usage by the different Codex surfaces here. We can also see a leaderboard of all of our users, and just see who's kind of top in adoption internally. And then we have the ability to track things like code review that are happening remotely or as automations. We can see, for example, the P0, P1, and P2 issues that are being found here and the quantities of that. And if we have people reacting to our code review, like thumbs up, thumbs down, or other emojis, we'll get that aggregated in here in a graph for us. In addition to all of this, it's obviously nice to have a dashboard, but we have the ability to just plug this into our analytics API. So we have a full analytics platform for this. You can go read the API reference and see how you can pull the different reports out into your reporting tools. We've worked hard to make this just kind of a very standardized process, but you can go check out the analytics API docs there. And then we also have the ability, if you want, just to export the data, you can go and download like a CSV or JSON of all the data contained in this dashboard. So altogether, we think these are features that allow you to get the right data to make sure folks who are adopting Codex understand how they're using it, understanding who's using it, and that can integrate into your enterprise stack in just a meaningful way. So while we're on the subject of code review, I just wanted to chat about this real quick. So as I mentioned, you can configure different settings with Codex, and you can see code reviews kind of happening in the backend. If you want to turn this on for your organization, there's a code review setting in here. And what I can do is essentially go in, and I get a list of all my repositories when I connect to my GitHub, and I can set it to review all the PRs in the repository or just my personal preferences for that. And whenever a PR is opened in that repository, developers will start getting reviews on it. Codex will make a quick comment if it's a P0 or P1 issue. And so this can be a really great way for teams to just ensure that they're getting good reviews, speed up the review process, take some of the burden off of engineers, not eliminate human in the loop entirely, but just give really insightful reviews on each PR. And this is something we do for all of our repositories internally, and I've found it a very meaningful signal. All right. Let's just jump back into the deck real quick. In addition to the analytics API, we also have a compliance API. So you can get a read-only analytics API key, and essentially get a specific enterprise scope applied to it. You can also create a compliance API key, and then have us mint that with the ability to pull compliance logs. This is kind of the standard ChatGPT compliance log process. And just to show what this looks like, if I go back over, I can go into the-- We have our compliance API platform here for enterprise customers. And this will give you documentation on how to integrate the compliance API into different kind of partners like Microsoft, or Palo Alto Networks, Zscaler, et cetera. And so we have the full sort of docs on how to do that here. And then we have a reference for all of the events that you get out of Codex. And you can see there's quite a few of them, things like prompt created, environment created, and you can see individual samples of the types of data that you're getting out of here. So things like the prompts that are changing, or if they're changing a Codex environment or some other aspect of the system. So we'll log all of that out for you. Great. Let's jump back into the presentation here real quick. So just to cover off on a few resources that we have for administrators, we have the OpenAI Cookbooks, and these are really useful for just kind of broad patterns of how to use Codex. So for example, if you want to help your teams integrate Codex into a GitLab CI pipeline, we have a whole workflow on that there. If you want to automate Codex using the agents SDK, we have a workflow and coded samples on doing that there. So these are a bit more technical, hands-on manuals. There's a Codex section of the OpenAI Cookbook you can find. We also have a series of white papers. We have a Codex security white paper talking about our security architecture, how OpenAI uses Codex with all the use cases that we've compiled internally for Codex. And then we have a white paper on how to build an AI native engineering team, how to think about Codex throughout the SDLC. It's helpful to read those, and we can share those out and link those for you all. So with that, that's the presentation. That's kind of a wrap on what we wanted to show you. A lot of progress being made and a lot of new enterprise features that we have here. Always looking for feedback, but would love to have you all try it out. So thanks for coming, and with that, I think I'll turn it over to questions.
