<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/codex-for-faculty-and-researchers-webinar-replay -->

# 2026-06-12 - Codex for Faculty and Researchers

<!-- vimeo: 1200883888 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

<!-- vid-ref:1200883888 -->
[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1200883888)


Two of my colleagues who are joining us today as well, Marcus Stallworth and Pradya Tiku, who will be helping us answer a lot of your questions today. So please don't go nice on them. Please ask them your hardest questions on chat and also on the Q&amp;A tab. They'd love to see some of the questions that are coming in and interest them. We'll also have a Q&amp;A towards the end of the session as well. Just to introduce how the session is planned. We have the slides covering everything that is related to Codex. We'll go through what is Codex. We'll go through why is it important for you, why should you really care about this tool. We'll cover some of the features of Codex. We'll cover some of the use cases as well, and then we'll go into a live demo on how Codex works, and I'll show you some of those features as well. So let's get started. If there's one message I want everybody to leave from today's session is you can just build things. Keeping a builder's mindset, it's essential when you're working with Codex. In this session, we'll see how Codex helps you build stuff, things that you want to idea, things that you want to do, and in the previous few years, the only thing that was remaining between what you wanted to build versus what you could build is your technical skills. Codex bridges that gap extensively and helps you just build things, and the only limit that is there now is what you can think of. So there's one message that you want to leave with today is think of an idea, think about what you want to get done, and you can just build things. Now, what is Codex? I like to call Codex OpenAI's everything agent. It used to be called OpenAI's coding agent, but I think it can do a lot more things than just coding. It can help faculty and researchers. I know a lot of you on the call are from the faculty and the researcher persona. It can help turn your ideas, your things that you want to build into an actual workflow, an actual product, an actual application, an actual service that you can work, feel, and of course, share with others as well. For faculty members in the audience, that means that you can start drafting lesson plans. You can start augmenting some of your admin work. We work with a lot of faculty members, and one of the things that they tell us the most is they spend a lot of time doing a lot of these back-and-forth admin work, especially answering emails. Codex can help you augment a lot of that work as well. For researchers in the audience, it can help you analyze data. I was a researcher in my previous role, and a lot of the time was spent in analyzing vast amount of data, and that was massively time-consuming and could be inaccurate as well based on what tool I'm using. Codex helps you really bridge that gap and reduce the amount of effort you need to spend on analyzing that data. It can help you build your custom prototyping tools. While we have a lot of tools out there that can do specific things, Codex can help you build your own tool for your own particular research. And one use case that I really love, and we'll show that in the demo today as well, is automating research reviews. So as researchers, I can imagine you need to go out and read literature on a daily basis. And that is again, time-consuming. Not only that you have to read, but also you have to put insights from research. Codex can help you do a lot of that automation, pulling out what are the top research topics in your area, what has happened in the last seven days, last month, last six months, give you that content so you as a human can then drive insights from that data. Now, what sits underneath Codex is a rapidly improving model foundation. And this matters because this directly affects how Codex feels in practice. I don't want you to remember any of these names. It'll be good if you remember what GPT is and what GPT 5.5 is, but the message I want to land as part of this slide is Codex is a dynamic product. It's a living product. It is continuously improving because of the underlying frontier intelligence models that we continue to release. For example, we released GPT 5.2 Codex model, which was fine-tuned for Codex in December 2025, and the latest model that we have that powers Codex is GPT 5.5 that we released in April. And this would continue to improve. And this underlying intelligence, as it improves, it really helps you do your work better as you continue to work with Codex. So remember that Codex is a living product. It's a dynamic product. It is continuously improving, and hence, the Codex that you use today is probably the worst version of Codex you'll use ever, and in the next week, in the next month, it will continue to improve. Now you might wonder, "Gaurav, why am I here? Why are you telling me all of these things?" So, let me convince you why all of this matters to you. First is for you to start thinking of your problems. Start thinking of the things that you want to achieve. Don't think of the technical complexity that lies underneath that particular idea. Just think of problems, think of ideas. Think what you want to achieve in the next six months, in the next year, or what you're trying to do every day but is very repetitive and takes a lot of your mind and effort. Start from there. Let Codex handle the underlying technical complexity and the underlying heavy lifting. That's essential because this would help you free up time on not only thinking about more ideas, but also ensuring that when the Codex builds something, you can be there, you can test it out and continue to improve what you're building with Codex. And third, sticking to the point of human in the loop, you're always in control. Codex is there for you to create something, create maybe the first draft, iterate a product, but you still are in control in terms of what goes inside Codex, what Codex uses as documents, as context to build a service, build a product, build an app, and then what it produces as a final outcome. You still, as a human, remain in control as you're building with Codex. Now, I want to put this out here because it's one of the most common questions we get as we work with our customers in terms of, "I thought OpenAI only gave ChatGPT. What is this Codex, and why should I be using ChatGPT versus Codex?" Up front, there are a lot of common things that both ChatGPT and Codex can do, so the lines between the two products are blurring. But I'll give you my mental model on how I think about using ChatGPT and Codex. When you're trying to brainstorm an idea, when you're trying to think of something, when you're trying to ideate, when you're trying to draft an email, for example, ChatGPT is really good for that. Good to come up with your first idea, brainstorm, be your partner in crime in terms of thinking of something together. Now, when you want to build something, that's where you can go to Codex. If tomorrow you would like to build a presentation, a report, a prototyping research tool, as I mentioned for researchers, analyzing large amounts of data, Codex is really, really good for that. We've optimized Codex for those sort of tasks. Underneath Codex is using a lot of coding. It's building code for you to achieve a task. So if there's anything that you can do while using code, Codex can now do that on your behalf. So think of ChatGPT as your brainstorming/ideation partner, and think of Codex as your building partner, when you want to build something, something that you can touch, feel, and share across your group, across or widely in the public. I'd like to point out that Codex, again, as I said, it's a living product, but it's made of a few things. And this is essential to understand because as you start working with Codex, understanding how it operates internally really makes a difference in how you work with this particular tool. Codex has three essential parts in it. First is the model, and this is a follow-up on one of my first slides where I spoke about frontier intelligence. Codex is powered by ChatGPT 5.5, which is our state-of-the-art model. This model forms the brain of what Codex does. This is the intelligence of Codex. But intelligence in isolation, it's not useful. This is where hardness comes in. Think of hardness as your body. Now my arms are moving, but my brain is likely telling my arms to move. So hardness is the body of Codex that uses the intelligence and use that intelligence in a safe and a governed manner. And finally, the surfaces itself. How do you actually interact with Codex? Now, we have a couple of different services that we provide, and we'll see one of them in the later part of this session. But we support things like the app, the Codex app, which is a local app on your Mac or your Windows. And then you also have the CLI, which is a command line interface. And we also have support for IDEs, which is VS Code, JetBrains. So we want to meet you where you're already developing. If you are a big VS Code fan, we also have functionality for Codex to integrate with VS Code as well. So the key idea here to leave with, again, Codex is a living product. It has intelligence, it has its own body, which is the hardness, and it has a surface through which you interact with it. Now, using Codex. Till now, what we've covered is more on the theory part of Codex, that what is Codex, why did we create it? How does it really help you? Now you might be wondering, "Well, if this is amazing, I want to get started. How do I actually use this thing?" The good news here is if you've worked with ChatGPT, Codex works in a very similar way in terms of how you interact with it. You interact with Codex in terms of prompting it. So if you've ever written a prompt in ChatGPT, it's a very similar sort of way of communication. Our recommendation is to have a prompt that has four unique aspects. First is always starting with a goal. What you're trying to achieve using Codex. What is the goal? What is the task here that you're trying Codex to achieve? Next is to give it some context. As you would talk to a human, and if you're talking to a human, you're asking a question, you're probably given some sort of context. Similarly, with Codex, you likely give some sort of context. If, for example, you're trying to have a faculty member creating a lesson plan, you would likely give it some context in terms of what are you trying to teach. If there was a prior lesson plan that you had created yourself, that could be used as an example. If there's a particular structure you want to create a lesson plan in, that's really essential for Codex to perform the task successfully. Next is constraints. You really would like Codex to work in a way which is apt and which is quick, but also which makes sense for you. So things that you don't want Codex to do. A good example here is that you want Codex to actually produce a document, which is a Word document that's five pages long. It has a few paragraphs. It's under a particular heading. You don't want Codex to give you just five bullet points. So putting in those constraints is really helpful for you to understand how-- Really helpful for Codex to understand what it's trying to do and what success and outcome will look like. And finally, I think one of the most critical ones that most people miss, including myself, is when is it done? When should Codex give you back that outcome? What does good look like? So if any of you have written unit tests, you write unit test in your life, it's very similar concept. When you ask Codex to do something, Codex needs to know when should it give you an output. When does it mean that there's an outcome that the human can use? Hence, putting in those conditions would really help Codex understand when to give you that. A tip here is no two humans will prompt in the same way. While I've given you this high-level structure, having the goal, the context, the constraints, and a successful validation, no human will write every prompt in the same way. So I urge you, I implore you to have your own prompting style, combining some of these aspects that I just mentioned, so that you become comfortable in working with Codex going forward. Let's look into some of the features of Codex, and I guarantee we will cover each of these features in the demo session as well. So the theory is something that is not clear. Stay with us, we'll be covering these in the session in the lab as well. The planning mode. Planning mode is a really powerful feature of Codex that lets you, as the name suggests, plan a task before Codex starts to build it. Again, I like to give an analogy of working with humans. When you're working with a peer or when you're working with a teammate and you're trying to come up with something together, when you're trying to work on a project, it's highly unlikely that you will start coding the first day, or you'll start building the first day. It's like building a house. You'll likely have a plan for the house, an architect will build it, somebody will review it before you start putting the first brick. It's very similar in Codex as well. You can ask Codex to help you plan the task. You can review that plan. It's a document that Codex will produce. You can make changes in that document based on what you think is good, what you think needs to be removed, what you think needs to be updated before you ask Codex to implement that plan. Now, there are a couple of advantages as you can think for the plan mode. First and foremost, it's quick to produce a plan, so you don't have to wait a couple of minutes or 30 minutes or an hour for Codex to produce something. You review it, you again send an instruction and wait another 60 minutes for it to run. Plan mode, hopefully in a couple of minutes, it produces something that you can review, update, and then you can ask Codex to build. So it's extremely quick. Second, which is my favorite bit, is me as a human, I'm in control of what Codex is building. So while Codex has its own brain, which is the model, it knows what it's trying to do. I, as a human, can confirm what Codex is trying to do by reviewing its plan before it goes in and builds it. And hence plan mode is really powerful, especially if you're trying to achieve something that will take a long time to build. Have it in plan mode, ensure the plan makes sense to you before you ask Codex to build it. agents.md. Now, we need to ensure that Codex acts as a teammate that knows things about your work, so you don't have to go in every time you work with Codex to say the same thing about your work every time to Codex. And that will become very frustrating. If you're working with a team and every day morning you come in and you have to introduce yourself, you have to introduce your work, that will become very frustrating. And hence, we want Codex to act as your teammate. agents.md in Codex is essentially a file within your project which gives Codex instructions which are persistent, which stays within the project itself, on how your work should operate, on how Codex should operate based on the tasks that you're given it. A really good example here is that if in your role you produce a lot of documents, and those documents need to have a particular structure, need to have a particular way of writing, need to have a particular grammar, you can put all of that within agents.md so Codex understands that whenever you're trying to give it a task, these are the set of instructions you need to follow. In teams that code a lot, agents.md file is really good to keep some specific instructions around how your code is structured. Maybe around how you comment, some of your repositories that you have, repository structure, that all can go into agents.md. Where this is really powerful is as you have agents.md within your project and you continue to update and keep it as a ground truth for all of your references, you will start to see Codex giving you better outputs, making fewer mistakes, and hopefully it's faster with the work that you're giving it as well. We'll show you an example of agents.md in the lab part of this session, so you'll become a lot more familiar on how agents.md is structured. Skills. This is again a very powerful feature of Codex, where it helps you if you're trying to do the same task again and again. Skills really help you package up those instructions for the same task that you are trying to achieve. So you can call upon a skill, call upon the set of instructions by just a single command rather than having to type those instructions again. Think of it as like a reusable workflow, where you are packaging the instructions, some resources, maybe a few scripts, and then lets Codex, and Codex can then reuse it consistently. A great example of skills, again, I'll go back to the documentation example, is we work with customers that are producing QBRs or quarterly business reports or monthly business reports. As researchers, you might be writing papers for a particular journal that have a particular structure it needs to follow. Skills are a really good example, a feature in which you can give it that structure of that particular journal, and any time you have to format your research into that journal structure before you submit it, skills really help you do that at scale without you having to give it instructions every time. The powerful aspect of skills, it's shareable. So if you have five people in the team all trying to do the same thing, all trying to submit to the same journal, and you as a group would like to maintain some sort of consistency among everybody, skills are a great way for you to do that. For a faculty member, for example, you can create a skill in terms of feedback. So maybe you're getting your You're having assessments and assignments as part of your coursework, and you would like that assignment to be reviewed. You can create a skill, you can pass it your rubric, the skill can check the assignments and give it a response based on what the rubric was, and give you a structured result that you can then review and pick up the students that performed well, that performed weak, so you can give them that dedicated feedback, based on the result that skill gave you. So again, sky is the limit. Skills are something that reusable workflows that you can use again and again by calling a single command. We will be building a skill in the session as well, so stay tuned for that if this is something of your interest. Automations. Automations supercharge skills, and as the name suggests, it is automating a task. So let's say that every Monday morning, I would like to receive a summary of all the research that has happened in my area of interest over the last seven days. I can build a skill that looks into some public websites, maybe Archive, for example, in terms of research, pulls out all the important research that has happened, prioritizes it based on the task I've given it. It comes up as a skill, and I can automate that to run that skill every day morning at 8:00 or every Monday morning at 8:00 so that it then comes to me when I open Codex, and I can review it before I start my day. It's an excellent way for sending out communications as well. If you're sending out communication to your students on a weekly basis, and you want it to be running on a particular automation, this is a great example for doing that as well. So again, sky is the limit. Try to find something that you do it recursively. Try to find something that has a repeated structure. Skills, combining that with automation is a great way of doing that. Again, I'll show an example of that in the session today. Plugins. Plugins supercharge Codex itself. Codex, as I described, has intelligence, has a hardness on how to use that intelligence, but your data might not be sitting on your local computer. It might be sitting in SharePoint, Google Drive, Gmail, Slack, Notion, Teams. You might be interacting with a lot of third-party tools where a lot of this data is sitting. Plugins provide that data in a safe governed manner to Codex, so it can work on that data to provide you that output. It makes your work with Codex a lot more personalized and prevents you downloading that data into your personal computer, so Codex can act on it. But you can download the data if you like. Codex will work on these local files, but it just makes things a lot easier if you're connecting to a repository in SharePoint, for example, where you have your years' worth of work there, so Codex can look into it and then act on that data. And when that data updates, Codex also has latest information available to it to act on it. We have a number of plugins that we have made available. I will show where that is in the app as well. I do encourage you to go into plugins, ensure that you can see what is available to you, and if your institution allows you to use that plugin, I would highly encourage you to go and enable that plugin and start pulling that data in. A point to note here, this is something we hear very often. Plugins will inherit the permissions of you as an individual. What does that mean? Is if I have Google Drive enabled, the documents, the folders I can see as an individual in Google Drive that have been shared with me are the same documents that Codex can see as well in Google Drive or any plugin. Codex cannot see anything outside of what I as a human can see, so you can be rest assured that, if as a student, you enable Google Drive, you will not be able to see the Google Drive folders of your faculty members. So you can be rest assured that that governance is built-in. And Sites. Sites is a relatively new feature. So we only released this last week. So it's still very much being tested. But Sites lets you take your experiences, something that you're building, maybe you're building a dashboard in Excel, and supercharts that make it a bit more interactive by hosting it on a website, by making a website out of it. That website is hosted on your workspace. That means it's not public. You can invite people by their emails to see that website. So it's locked down, in terms of who can see that website. Or you can release it to everybody in your workspace itself based on what's available. A great use case for that is if you're trying to build out a dashboard, if you're trying to build out some analysis and you've done your analysis in, say, Excel. Excel graphs are great, but you'd like to make it a bit more interactive, maybe have a few more dropdowns, have a few more scenarios, make it a bit more bright, as you can see in the slide as well. You can use Sites to create that for you, interactive experience for you and your peers, so your project looks a lot better. Again, I'll show an example of a quiz application that I built using Sites, so you get the picture in terms of how are Sites really helping people take a step further from just using static experiences to making it a bit more dynamic experiences on the web. Now, before we jump into the use cases, I'd like to quickly recap because there's a lot of things that we went through. So let me just quickly recap what we had. Planning mode. It helps Codex plan before you let Codex implement something. Skills. These are reusable instructions, packaged workflows that you can call on demand by using a single command. Automations. Automations, as the name suggests, automates things. If you combine that with skills, it can run your skill ad hoc or on demand at a particular time on a particular day. Sites, these are web experiences that take something which is static and makes them dynamic, which are hosted on a particular website within your workspace itself. And plugins, these are third-party applications that are there that you can pull in data from SharePoint, Drive, Gmail, Slack. That data, the way you work, comes into Codex, and you can operate with it. One thing I forgot to mention is plugin can also combine skills. So you can have a plugin where you can input Gmail, but you also have a skill that tells Codex on how you write your emails, how you draft your emails. Maybe you draft your emails in sentences, maybe you draft your email as a paragraph. You can write a skill for that. So plugins will combine both the Gmail, the application, but also a skill that helps Codex know how you write an email. So if you enable a plugin, you can tell it to write an email, and it knows how you typically write an email. It will draft that for you. Let's jump into some use cases here. So until now, we've covered a lot of features. We've covered how Codex works. We've covered some use cases as well, but let me share some more use cases with you. The first example, and this is particularly for faculty members, but if a researcher is on the call, if we have students on the call, you can start to think how this might be applicable to you as well. The first example I want to share is the automated course build-up. Now, many course materials, a lot of the course materials lives across lecture notes, assignments, reading lists, slide decks. So instead of manually assembling everything for each semester, Codex can start combining that information together using plugins, for example, and organize them into something which is reusable as a course module. And then you can ask it to update it based on the latest information that it's getting. Assessment feedback. I covered this briefly. You can use Codex to build some sort of an assessment feedback automation where you can feed in the assessments that students have provided, build a skill, build an automation. So every month or every couple of months, whenever the assessment results are coming in, Codex can review those assessments, provide the feedback that you can review. A few more. Meeting an action tracker. A lot of us are in meetings, and we hate making trackers. So you can have Codex take in the raw notes from the meeting and build you a tracker, assign owners, and if you have a plugin for an email or Outlook, for example, in it, it can send those tracking points back to those individuals as well. So again, there's a lot of examples on this slide, but you start to get a theme in terms of it's starting. Codex is a great way for you to partner with in terms of augmenting a lot of your admin work, but also giving you first drafts on things that you're working on. So you start to get some ideas, and then you remain in the loop in terms of the outcome, and it starts to give you those ideas that you can work upon. For researchers, one of the use cases I previously mentioned is one of my favorite use cases is a literature review synthesizer. So researchers can use this to reduce the time they have to spend going onto the web, searching for new papers, searching for new research. Codex can do that on your behalf, gives you a document, something that you can consume relatively quickly, so you can focus your time on insights and creating impact from those insights rather than just pure, simple web search. Analyzing data. A lot of researchers, I'm assuming, analyze a lot of data. And I, for the love of my life, I can't remember Excel formulas. You can have Codex do that research or do that data set analysis for you and give you those insights that you need that you can then work upon. Building a research grant proposal. I know a lot of researchers and faculty members in this room might be applying for grants. Each grant is differently structured. So maybe having some sort of a skill that can help you understand what a structure for the grant is. So anybody trying to apply for that grant in your department, in your university, in your institution, can use the same skill and understands what the requirements for that particular grant is. With sites, for example, what you can do is, if you're finaling a project, if you're a PhD, and you'd like to make your final year thesis a bit more interactive, you can absolutely use sites to make it a bit more interactive that people can play around with it as well, and they're not really dependent on a tech or a document to just read through what you have done. So again, a lot of use cases here, but a common theme here is that we're not trying to replace your expertise. You as the human are the expert and will always remain in the loop. What Codex does, it tries to reduce the amount of time you spend as a human on any of this manual coordination, manual research, and reduce that heavy lifting so you can focus on doing your work that you're really good at and creating impact from that work. This concludes the theory part of the session. So just as a recap, we've covered what is Codex? Why is it important for you? Why should you really care in investing in this particular tool? We've covered a number of use cases. We've covered a number of features. I've also told you how it works under the hood so you understand this is not a black box, but rather something which is dynamic and is continuously improving. Now we'll actually see the product itself. Before we do that, I'll give everybody maybe a minute or so to go and download the Codex application if you haven't downloaded it already. You can do that by going to openai.com/codex or just typing Codex on Google. You'll get the first link that can help you download Codex. And once you've downloaded it, you can sign in using ChatGPT. So that's the easiest and the most convenient way of signing into Codex. I'll give everybody a minute, so please take your time, download Codex, and sign in to ChatGPT. Okay. I'll bring up my screen now. So hopefully some of you have downloaded Codex. If not, don't worry, you can download it in the background as well. Just remember to sign in via ChatGPT for the most convenient and the easiest way to sign in. So hopefully, if you've downloaded it, you should land on a screen like this. Don't be concerned. I'll walk you through each and every aspect of what the Codex application looks like. So in the middle, you would see a very familiar-looking text box. This is also a text box that we have on ChatGPT. So if you use ChatGPT, this experience is very similar. In the text box is where you write your prompt. So the structure, remember the structure I spoke about, the four aspects of a prompt. This is where you start writing in natural language. We, at OpenAI, support nearly 90 plus languages. So if English is not your first language, that's absolutely fine. You can start working with your local language, be it French, German, any of the European languages. We do support some Asian languages as well. Here you have the model picker. As I said, it's a dynamic product. We offer a lot of our models, our state-of-the-art models. So here you can see I've activated GPT 5.5, but I also do have GPT 5.4. I have a few reasoning modifications I can make here. A rule of thumb here is always use low and medium for a majority of your tasks, things that are very well scoped, things that you know the outcome, likely what the outcome is. Low and medium reasoning should be more than enough for you. High and extra high is typically reserved for tasks which are highly ambiguous, very novel. Maybe nobody has ever done that task in the world. You're trying to sort of go through data, for the entire solar system. You probably want to be keeping it extra high at that point. Just remember, low and medium costs the least number of credits. High and medium cost the most number of credits. So in terms of consumption, low and medium, lower tokens, high and extra high will be more tokens, more credits as well. One thing I want to introduce to you as we go through the left-hand side of the panel itself is projects, but we'll come to that in a second. You can here create a new chat, so this is what I did. You can search for your previous chats here. So in case you want to search through what you did three weeks back, you can search here. Plugins, that's what I already mentioned. We have a number of different plugins available here. You can search through the ones you like. Automations, we'll go through an example of automation, but this is where you see your automations coming up. Sites, again, I mentioned this to you already. This is where you can see all your sites that you have created. I'll skip through Codex Mobile, but as a quick one, you can also access Codex through your ChatGPT application on your mobile as well. Projects are a really important feature. Think of projects as in terms of your file system. So, you will create a project or create a folder within your local file system for any work that you're trying to do with Codex. So if you're trying to achieve one task, there's one big project that you're trying to do, maybe with your teammate, you're trying to create a lesson, you're trying to do research on a new topic, highly encourage you to go in, create a new project, start from scratch, or use an existing folder locally that might have some of your data. This will help Codex remain within the isolation of that project itself, so it can read, write, edit those files in the project and doesn't have visibility outside of that project. So it just keeps your file system secure in terms of Codex only accessing what you give it inside the project. Let's jump into a few things. So let's look at a skills demo. So prior to this session, I wanted Codex to create me a literature review skill. And I wanted this skill to help me with research on specific websites that I provide, and the outcome should be always structured in the same way. A fairly straightforward prompt. This is not structured according to the formatting I mentioned, but just wanted to show you a quick demo. This prompt is asking Codex, "Can you help me build a skill that will help me with my research?" Now, I don't want it to build the skill. I want it to help me plan the skill first. So, it worked away for some time and then gave me this particular plan. Now, it has not implemented anything. Just to keep a note of that. It's given me a summary on what it plans to build. So what will it do, what structure it will keep, what is its plan to test it, test out the skill, and what assumptions has it made? Now I can go in, I can edit the skill. I can tell Codex, "Nope, I don't want this to be this structure. I want it to be a different structure." You can give all of that. Once you're happy, you can just tell Codex to implement this plan. Right? So I can just tell it to implement this plan, and it will start to run, to start implementing this particular plan itself. I think I've lost connection here, but it should start implementing this plan itself, and building you a skill. Again, I already have the skill built out. So here you see that I've asked Codex to help me build the same skill. I've given it a particular structure. It worked for a couple of minutes, and it's created a skill for me called the Literature Review Assistant that I can now use for it to help me research on any particular areas of interest that I might have. So here you see in this particular prompt, I've asked Codex, "Use the skill I just created." Look at papers that I have locally saved and help me answer this particular question: How are large language models changing academic writing practices? And once you do this research, as an outcome, I want a literature review matrix, identify some research gaps, and put this in a Word document and save it in the output folder. So I've given it a very specific instruction, but it will use the same skill I just created, and it will save the output in the .output folder locally. It works for under four minutes and creates this particular document itself. A good thing to remember here is that I haven't gone outside the Codex application. That means I'm using the in-app browser, so any documents, assets you create, you can now view within Codex itself. So this is a document, and I can quickly see what Codex has prepared for me, and again, review it. I can open it as a Word document. I can edit it and use this to have further insights into the research version itself. So I'm going to create way for something that I do very regularly, but I didn't want to give it the same instructions again. I packaged it as a skill. I gave it what's unique to what I want to do today. I gave it a bit more, in terms of what I wanted to identify, and it gave me this in less than four minutes. The next thing I wanted to show here is, Sites. So, as a faculty member, you might want to make your classes a bit more interactive. So here I've asked Codex to create a site for me that checks students' knowledge on the topic of machine learning. I've given some instructions in terms of, I want 10 questions. I want to test the concepts of AI and machine learning, a few more things. I have given a few more instructions as well that you can see here. It's worked for a couple of minutes, and this is a great way to see that things might not work in one shot. That means it was working for some time, but it created something which is local. But I said, "You should be hosting this in Sites." This is the instruction I gave it. So it worked for about under 15 minutes. I asked it, "What's going on?" Because it's been working for so long, and then eventually it gave me a site that I can-- Oh, I have to share my screen. One minute. Okay, you have to just take the face value that it does create it. It's not letting me share a different screen. That's fine. But you can see the same file that is created in index.html. It's created that as well. Oh, and my Codex has crashed, which is not ideal. Give me one second. Happens. Demo gods are sometimes not with us, so bear with me as I open it. Perfect. Okay. And we're back to regular programming. So you just have to trust me that it did build the app, and it is now hosted in this site, that it opens it in the browser, and you can see the website that it has built. The next demo I'd like to show you is on automation and plugins. So this goes back to, again, a similar topic around research. Here I've asked Codex that I like to search for certain new papers and preprints in the last seven days that focuses on AI in physics research. I've given it some websites that I asked it to search and then prioritize items in the following way, and then given it some output that I want it to achieve. So fairly straightforward. What is the source? How do I want the outcome to be? And, I asked Codex to do this for me. It ran for about one minute, 32 seconds and gave me an output here. So you can see a lot of these articles are from Archive, some major articles as well, and it's given me that. Now I've said, "I want to do this every day, every week, right? So can you create this to be an automation that runs every day at 12:00 p.m. and send the output as an email using my Gmail plugin?" So I've enabled Gmail, so it knows that Gmail is my email of choice. And what it will do is it says, "Okay, I'll run this 12:00 o'clock every day, and I will send this onto your email using the Gmail plugin." So I did this earlier part in the morning, and you can see that it ran, and it said the beacon was completed, and it did send this email out to me. Now, I'm not going to take a risk of, again, switching my windows, so you can take it as face value. But this email did arrive. It gave me a lot of the same thing that you just saw previously. But now it runs every day, 12:00 o'clock. In my inbox, I get this summarized analysis of the research I've asked it to do that I can use to then build my insights and do my research. So again, you can start thinking of something that you do every day, build a skill, build an automation on top of it, and it will give you that analysis in your email, in your Slack, in your Teams, wherever you work. So these are the few demos I wanted to show. So we have covered a few things like skills, automation, sites, all of these things that I just showed you in the session. All of these are available to you to use within Codex. I did promise I'll show you what an agents.md file will look like. So hopefully the demo gods are still with me, and I will show you what that would look like. So I'm just going into my VS Code here. So this is again, a sample agents.md. It tells Codex on how to behave in this repository or this project. It gives it a purpose on why is the folder here, what is the project all about. It gives it some instructions around who the audience is. It tells it some rules around citation and research. It gives it some workflow rules, some teaching rules, some other rules around privacy and safety as well. So anything that you would like Codex to really adhere to in terms of rules, put that into agents.md, put that into your project, and then work in that project in Codex to do everything so that Codex can adhere to that. You can have multiple projects. So if you are doing multiple engagements, multiple activities, you can create multiple projects, each for each engagement, and each of them can have their own agents.md file as well. I'll switch back into my presentation. Bear with me. Okay. Okay, so we've seen the demo of a few things. Yeah. So my colleagues will post a link in the chat. This is more of a homework. If you would like to build things that you saw today, agents.md, scales, and automation, go through this exercise. Go into the room within this exercise and start going through from step one, I think we have about 11, 12 steps that you can go through, where you'll get more familiar on working with Codex, but also start building your own skills, your own automation as well. So it's a self-guided, interactive exercise, and I highly encourage you, if you want to get more hands-on with Codex, this is an excellent exercise to get started with. Before I break for questions, one hour is not enough for learning a thing like Codex. It is so much to get through. OpenAI Academy is your friend. I know you registered for this session using OpenAI Academy, so I highly encourage you to go to OpenAI Academy very regularly, or go there daily if you can. We host a lot of these sessions, but also there's a lot of pre-recorded sessions. This session will be pre-recorded and put up there as well. A lot of my peers are hosting other sessions in the future around Codex, ChatGPT, agents, advanced users of Codex. So you can go to Academy for a lot of these interactive activities. And also there's some assets as well that you can download and start using it straight away. So OpenAI Academy, highly recommend that you go there. If you want a tour specifically on Codex, there's Codex documentation that is available to everybody. Please go there. We keep it very updated, and all the latest releases will come there. Codex Cookbooks, again, prepackaged cookbooks that you can use to, again, experiment with a lot of features I spoke about today, and Codex Changelog as well. So this is if you are an advanced user of Codex, I would recommend that you go to the Changelog. This will tell you the features that we are changing, any new upgrades that are coming in existing features. It will be a really good resource for you to be up to date on the Codex side of things. Okay. I'll break for questions now. But, first of all, thank you for being here. We really love feedback at OpenAI. If this session made sense for you, please do leave some feedback, goods and bads, everything is welcome. We do these sessions very
