<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/codex-for-software-engineers-2026-03-13 -->

# codex-for-swes

<!-- vimeo: 1184995666 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

<!-- vid-ref:1184995666 -->
[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1184995666)


Hello, everybody. Welcome to our Codex for Software Engineer webinar. My name's Julianne. I'm on the customer education team here at OpenAI. And I'm joined here by some folks from the Codex team, so I'll introduce them in a minute. Just some housekeeping things. Drop any questions you have for the presenters in the Q&amp;A tab. We have somebody that's going to be monitoring those questions, and they'll hop on and ask our presenters. So definitely want to make this session as interactive as possible. And with that, I am going to pass it over to the Codex expert, Ryan Taylor, who's going to walk you through the webinar today. Cool. Awesome. Yeah, thank you. Thanks, everyone. Appreciate you spending your next hour with me. Again, my name's Ryan Taylor. I'm a Codex deployment engineer at OpenAI. Today, I want to talk about Codex for software engineers. So how do you get up and running with Codex? At the end of today, I want you to be inspired to immediately start using Codex in your own work, and see if you can accelerate parts of the SDLC that you've not touched before or do it a little bit more effectively. As we go through, you can use any of the Codex surfaces. We'll talk about each one in a moment. I'm going to show mostly the Codex app today, but a lot of these concepts are either identical or functionally very similar, regardless of the surface that you choose to use. Let's think about what we're going to talk about, and then we'll dive into it. First, just want to go through the process of setting up each of the three surfaces so that you can immediately start using whichever one you choose. We'll spend the bulk of our time looking at actual demos of Codex across various parts of the SDLC, then we'll talk a little bit about what is actually going on under the hood, what's the Codex agentic loop actually look like, and then some best practices on how to delegate your work to agents, especially as the capabilities of the models and the harnesses improve over time. What's the best way to work with them? And then finally, we'll end with how high-performing teams are using Codex, or what does an AI-enabled engineering team really look like? At various points, I'll probably stop for questions. I have one of my Codex colleagues, Alex, so please put your questions in and we'll stop and take a couple along the way. And with that, let's get started. The last few years with AI have been really amazing and we've seen the capabilities change. So early days, coding agents were really more of an auto code complete. Being able to edit the line you're working on, really focused on single one-off tasks. Really, really cool. As the capabilities of the agents improved, they started to function more like pair programmers. So sitting alongside of us working on the task, we're still generally working in the terminal or in an IDE, bigger context windows, a little bit better capabilities. But just in the past six months, the full system seems to be coalescing really nicely and we're seeing teams really focus on this agentic delegation type of a slight working style with the tools, where not only are we working on a single task, but we're actually kicking off multiple tasks at the same time, being able to work more effectively in more areas of our code base and in more stages of the SDLC at once. And part of that has been a recent acceleration of the underlying models themselves. So around December, when GPT 5.2 Codex was released, coding agents really became capable as agentic tools as opposed to being pair programmers. A couple months later, 5.3 Codex took that even further, and then the Codex app first version was released, gave people this new surface to look at and really allowed orchestration of multiple agents at the same time. And then even more recently, GPT 5.4 just became much better. We're seeing it perform really well on long-running tasks and things like code review, planning mode, et cetera. Just an overview of the different surfaces. Like I mentioned, I'll be using the Codex app throughout the majority of these demos, but you have all three surfaces available to you. So the Codex CLI was our original and very popular UI originally. Really quick install, works alongside you and your terminal if that's where you're comfortable. Good integration with all the ChatGPT apps that you could access on chatgpt.com. The IDE extensions are also really good too if you find yourself living in code, looking at code. It fits very comfortably in your workflow there. And it also is really great to just give you that chat style interface inside of your code base so that you can stay in one focus mode, in one tool, and not have to look elsewhere for extra context. But the app itself is emerging as our most popular surface, and that's true for a couple of reasons. The first is that you can run tasks in parallel really easily. It's also a great discovery tool for things like skills and apps and plugins, which we'll talk about later. And just generally good UX for people. Maybe if you're not always working in your terminal or maybe newer to coding, or maybe you're not actually a coder by profession, and some of the underlying workflows and tools are not as familiar to you, the Codex app is an extremely approachable surface, as we'll see. One of the great things that the Codex app enables, on the left is that classic extreme multitasker. Four monitors, a bunch of terminals running at once.That capability is all surfaced in an extremely friendly way by the Codex app. You can do all that parallel development. You have all the capabilities of those models, but it's a very friendly surface, and it actually gives you really good visual signals about what's going on. Why don't I go ahead and actually show some of these? If you haven't installed it, I recommend if you have a minute here while we do the intro, go ahead and grab it. Go to openai.com/codex if you're a Mac user. If you're a Windows user, it's available on the Microsoft Store. Otherwise, ID extensions are pretty quick to install, and of course, you can use NPM or Homebrew to install the CLI. Give it a shot, and if you don't have a repo to work in, there's a really good open source one for the agents.md. It's a open source GitHub project. But, I think what I'd really like you to do is actually, if you are working with Codex for the first time and you have a repo for work or a personal project, use it there. See it work in a real environment and see it work in an environment that's relevant to you. And I think that's really going to show you what it's really capable of. So let's pull up the actual Codex app itself. I'm going to do a brief tour before we get going with prompting. With the Codex app, you can see first that I've got the typical things I would expect. I've got a model selection. We'll talk about the lightning bolt in a moment. I've got my reasoning efforts. I'm working in a project. Projects in Codex are directories on your local machine, which could either be a Git repository or a collection of files, or even a new folder with nothing in it to do a greenfield project. We'll see on the left side the projects we have collected here and any existing chats or threads in those projects. There are a couple other things we'll talk about later. Automations, plugins. You can search your existing threads. We'll also take a look at some of the settings later. You have a lot of things you can cover here. One thing that maybe some folks like to do is just switch into dark mode. I like to keep it in light mode for this version. So let's send our first prompt. In the case of Codex, there's so much you could do, but maybe we can just say, "What are popular things I can do as a developer in Codex?" Typical chat interface, and you'll see, because I'm working in the Codex project, it's going to run that thread here, so it has all the context of anything in this project already. And we can see here are some popular things to do in Codex. I can manage my threads here, and we'll see in a moment, you can do some pretty extreme multitasking here. Another thing to consider too is if you prefer to see a chronological list, you can sort it that way. So a lot of different ways you can look at what you're working on. Pull the slides back up. So let's think about how to use Codex across all the different parts of your SDLC. There was a really great article that we published on the OpenAI developers site recently, a couple of months ago, called "Building AI Native Teams," and you might already be familiar with all these parts of the SDLC, but through this demo, the next 45 minutes, we'll talk about how Codex can be used in each of these different areas. But let's just really quickly look at them, and then we can dive into each one. So I'm showing you this because a lot of times people think that coding tools are really only good at generating code in that build phase. But we can see that if you adopt AI tools everywhere, you can see a pretty significant gain in your productivity, accuracy, ability to deliver value. First is planning. So just deciding what you're going to work on, dealing with trade-offs, really good on the planning phase. We'll see some integrations with tools like Linear for issue tracking that can make sure you're collaborating nicely with the rest of your team. Design. I'm a former software developer by profession, and I was terrible at design then. I'm a lot better at it now because I don't do the work, I delegate to Codex, and you can work nicely with tools like Figma to pull in what your design team's working on and implement that without being an expert. There's a lot we can do to build, and we'll show a lot around that. There's also testing. So when we talk later about the build process, we always want to give our agents and our tools feedback. So running tests, running simulations of our applications gives that feedback back to the agent that we're building the right thing and helps us understand when the agent is done doing its work. Code review is also critically important. With the amount of code that's being written by AI tools, there's just so much to review, and human review is still really important, especially in enterprise software development. So Codex can speed that up and in a lot of cases, do the bulk or majority of the work. But that's also an area where we'll see Codex do some value. Documentation. I hate writing it, and AI tools in particular are excellent at crawling through your repos or your projects, understanding what's going on, and preparing documents for you. So we'll see a little bit about that. And then even in operations, code that's deployed to a test or production environment, we can do root cause analysis. We can triage issues. We can look at security issues. A lot of these things could be wrapped up in Codex. So I first want to start with Plan mode. So we'll go back to Codex. Before I prompt it, I want to show an app here that we'll be working inThis is a demo application. It's a support desk, like ticket inbox. You can kind of see the dashboard has some metrics on my support team and how they're performing over the last 30 days, and most importantly, I have a ticket inbox. So in this situation, maybe I'm a support rep that's seeing tickets come in, and I'm working on those and resolving them. So let's use Codex to plan a new feature. So I'll open a new thread in that project, so switch to Agent Desk Demo. And I want to maybe build an iOS app that can be a companion. Maybe I'm away from my computer, but I still want to accept and respond to incoming tickets. I'll use dictation mode because I'm a slow typer. Hey, Codex, I want you to plan out work for a SwiftUI iOS companion app for the support ticket inbox project. I just want a simple ticket interface that allows our reps to reply to tickets. And I'll stop dictation there to pull the prompt in. And then notice that there's a little pill that pops up here that's asking me if I want to create a plan or shift into Plan mode. This happens if you're not in Plan mode and the word plan or something like it is in your prompt. You could do this a couple different ways. You can click the button here. There's a plus button that also lets you switch on Plan mode, which I'll do. I think both on Windows and Mac, you can use the Shift + Tab keyboard combination in your prompt, and that'll switch it on or off. I'm going to hit that, and while Codex thinks about how this works, I want to talk about a few things going on and things to notice. So first of all, Codex is going to consider the context that it has available, which in this case is this repository. So there's no iOS code in this repo now, so it's going to have to build a plan around where to actually create the project. But it also is going to look through the application, see how it's architected, look at the existing system, what's the API look like, and then what kind of data are we working with? And at some point during most planning parts of a plan cycle, we have decisions to make. So maybe there are assumptions that we need to be resolved or design decisions. Are we thinking about building an MVP here, or are we going full on production ready? And Codex is going to surface those decision points to us and then provide some suggestions on what it thinks we should be working on. This could be a happy path versus a more complete, full end-to-end solution. It might be how we deploy it. And when it's ready to present those options, we'll see some really good feedback in the UI. The other thing I wanted to point out is in the model selection here, notice the lightning bolt next to the model. I have switched on Fast mode, which is available here if you click the plus and hover over Speed, you kind of see there are two modes. I'm in Fast mode because I want this demo to go smoothly and faster. It uses a little extra token credit, but it is about 50% faster than standard. So this is maybe something that you have switched on at your org level. In a couple minutes here, I think, or a couple seconds, hopefully, we'll see some decisions that are presented, but maybe this is a good point to pause and see. Alex, are there any Plan or Codex-related questions we can answer here in the meantime? Yeah. Let me see. There's some future thing that some questions that will be interesting. One of them is asking just about what's going on this support desk app. Can you tell more about what it is? Yeah. This is just a demo app that we created. It's a good test bed for a couple of the things we'll show. So think about a ServiceNow or some tool that a support team would be interacting with where, let's say if you have a bunch of customers and they have issues that pop up or questions, this is where you might go to triage and respond to those issues. So it's not a real app. It's not really designed to be a replacement for anything. It's just a little test bed for us to be playing around with. Cool. And another quick question from someone who has experience with Pascal, C++ and Java. They're asking about the true capabilities of Codex. I interpreted this as how does Codex do with things that are not JavaScript, not Python? Oh, sure. Yeah. Try it. That's my best advice. So, there's a huge amount of training data and capabilities that are baked into the base models. And the other thing I would say is there's a lot of more techniques we'll talk about later that if maybe it's not performing exactly the way you want on the first pass, there's ways of providing extra context to Codex, and maybe it's something that is specific to the project you're working on. If you're working in a very large legacy code base, understanding and working with that code base might go beyond just understanding the programming language. There might be architecture patterns or usage patterns inside that app, integrations that you've built, things that you need to help the model understand. There are ways you could build skills for that. You can use agents.md to enhance the context the agent's giving. So my best advice for any of those questions is just give it a shot. I think you might be pleasantly surprised. Crank up the reasoning from medium up to high or extra high if it's really complex, and you have a couple levers, the model, the reasoning, and then the context you're providing.Cool. Thanks, Alex. Yeah, we have a couple of decisions here to make, and I just want to highlight this with plan mode. So first of all, what should be the first iOS version? So this is asking us, do we want an MVP or do we want a full-on application? Notice that Codex is going to give us a few options. It generally gives you three options. If you hover over the info text, it gives you a little bit more detail about what it is asking for. And if you don't like any of the options, you can always type in, "Hey, I actually have a fourth alternative here that I'd rather you do instead." In this case, we'll take the recommendations. Same thing, how should we authenticate? I'm just going to say, "No authentication," because this is a demo app. And then for this planning structure, let's just do the MVP, just one simulation here, a simple application. So while that goes, I've given it the feedback that it's asking for, and it might have some other questions here. So here we go. Let's just do a mocked app data so we don't worry about needing to have the back end up and running, and here we go. So we have a completed plan. I'm spending a little bit of time on this because I think it's really helpful, especially, we're about to bootstrap this iOS app from scratch, from nothing, so it does help to have a little bit of a plan. Notice that the plan is going to have some really key things that you would see in a typical team. A summary, this is the goal, some key changes we're adding, and interfaces we're going to create, a test plan. This is really important because, number one, testing is really key for developing software, but it also gives us that feedback loop. Codex will be able to build the app, run it, see the feedback from the unit tests, and then make future updates accordingly. So if tests are failing, we know to fix it. It doesn't just do a single pass and then say, "Here, I think it's done," and have you do the QA for it. If there are any assumptions listed here, it will list them, and you always have the option of editing this plan before you submit, but I think we're good here. I'm just going to go ahead and implement. This is going to run, and while we do that, I just want to think about a couple of other things in the meantime. So we'll see this in a moment, but you can connect a lot of different tools to Codex. So number one, MCP servers, the Model Context Protocol, it's a way of enabling an agent to go out and gather more context based on the tools that you provide it. So if it decides, "Hey, I need to go out to my CI tool and see the latest build," it can go do that for you. Maybe you have documentation stored in Notion. Maybe you have some logs in Datadog that you need to pull in to correlate some behavior that you're seeing and fixing a bug. You can set up MCP servers so that Codex knows how to go and get extra context if needed. And plugins, which we'll talk about at the end, is a way of bundling those MCP servers with a series of skills. A skill is basically a thing you teach it. It's a workflow that is repeatable, that can cut down on the time it takes for you to accomplish certain tasks and increase the consistency and accuracy of those tasks and bundle those together as a work package. So we'll see in a minute the build iOS application will allow us to basically use Xcode, some best practices around building apps, and the ability to launch a simulator to actually see the app running on my computer. And we'll come back to Figma in a moment here. So we'll watch this. So I didn't give it that build iOS skill, and that's okay because I can just use the @ symbol to pull up those plugins, and I can submit this prompt. It is going to steer my running prompt here. So the agent between the next tool call, you can see it just gets added to the context. So if you didn't include something you want to include in your last prompt, you don't have to stop and start over. You can just steer that. And if you don't see it, it's in a setting under General. You can choose the default follow-up behavior, either queue, which the agent will complete the task before it restarts, or steer, where we can submit it in line like we just did. Let's work in parallel here. So I'm going to show the capability for Codex to be a good designer for you. So you can use a tool like Figma, which has design standards and maybe some mock-ups that your team's using. In this case, I've got a couple of data tables that are styled the way that I like, and you can ask Codex to pull those design styles directly into your application. So review this ticket inbox. The badges here aren't consistently styled. We don't have alternating row stylings like we would expect. So let's go ahead and update our application using Codex. So the first thing I'll do is I'll hit the dollar sign to pull up my skills, and I'll say use the Figma implement design skill here. And I'll say, "I have a prototype at the following link. I want you to migrate the row and table stylings to this app, not the content." So notice in our Figma design, this is some sort of financial table here. So we don't want to actually implement this specific table. What we want to do is we want to pull the design styles here. So I'll just copy the link from Figma and paste it in. So see, now we're working in parallel. We've got this app being built on one side, and we've got Figma that's going to go pull out the context from Figma and decide how it's going to implement that in our application.And we'll let these go. I just want to mention, when you're starting to parallelize work, it's sometimes really powerful to use get work trees, which you can instruct Codex to do by when creating a new thread. Notice this, select where to run the task. You can create a new work tree. We won't talk about Codex Cloud, but you can also dispatch cloud tasks in a completely remote environment. But a new work tree will clone a copy of this branch that you're working on to a separate location and develop on it there, and you can create a pull request or merge request from that location. And so, that's really powerful if you're working on many things in parallel that are technically separate tasks. It means that code changes in one branch will not overlap or compete with other active things going on in Codex. So this iOS app is probably going to take a little while, so we'll come back to it later. But we can see that we are calling the Figma tools here, so it's actually going directly to Figma and pulling my design styles. And in a moment, when I go to my ticket inbox, I should see the styles change. So we'll keep that up here on the side. In the meantime, let's think about building and testing. So we're writing a lot of software right now, and we can do some-- definitely tests are being written in line because that's how Codex knows to operate, but it can go beyond that. If there are some missing integration tests or unit tests in our application, maybe there's a bug that we want to fix and then also make sure we introduce a test to prevent future regressions. Codex is particularly good at that. So I'm going to pull-- I know this app that we're building has a bug because we've set it up that way. But if I go to my console log, it's at the network page, and I reload this app, I can see every time it loads an issue, it's firing off a bunch of these requests. And essentially what we have is an N+1 bug that's deliberately introduced into our project. And I'll just note that while we were investigating this other task, Codex did apply those stylings from Figma directly. So we probably will see that that task is done or still working. So I'm going to go ahead and create a new thread, still working in this project. And I'm going to say, "Hey, Codex, there's an N+1 query issue when fetching tickets for all users in my ticket inbox. Refactor this query logic and add a regression test so we don't have this problem in the future." I'll go ahead and send that. So notice I kicked off a new work tree. It's going to clone this project to a separate file and location, and it's not going to stamp all over the work that we're doing elsewhere. And this is, like I said, a really good option for you to look at multiple things at once without having conflicts. Let's check back into our iOS app here. So it's still working, not giving us a ton of feedback, but still cranking. And our style job is still going. Maybe this is a good opportunity to stop again for questions. Alex, anything coming up that we want to address? Yes. Sorry. Some questions about plan mode, about the difference between going into plan mode, not going into plan mode, and what's the artifact that's generated that we see it with the gray background, and what happens if you don't use plan mode? Just more context here. Yeah. Without plan mode, Codex has a bias for action. It's going to go ahead and make the changes you request, and it's going to do a lot less going back and forth with you and brainstorming. Whereas plan mode is inherently not going to touch anything in your file system, not going to make changes. And that plan that's shown to you is something that you're going to iterate on, almost like you would be doing in a planning session or live with a colleague. So this is really good, especially if you're working in a greenfield project where you don't really know what all the requirements should be. That's one great application. Going back and forth to surface assumptions that are being made, make product choices, use the pre-training of the model to inform best practices on architecture style, even if you're more thinking about being a product manager and thinking about product market fit, like what are some really good practices for releasing an MVP? How do you simplify your app? And it also is really good working in existing and legacy code bases where maybe you crank up the reasoning to very high and have it scan your entire application or maybe series of applications, especially if you're working in a monorepo, and propose to you, how are we going to make a change? So a popular project that I've seen in my past as a consultant is you have a legacy application. Really, no one knows how it works, and we need to migrate this system over to a new architecture, new tech stack, et cetera. In the past, it would take a lot of planning, a lot of reading through code and trying to maybe play around with it, build it, try to understand how we're going to create the scaffold around this, or what's the vertical slice that we can take out of this to migrate. And Codex can do a lot of that, and plan mode's a really great place to start. So as far as what happens to that plan that's created if you don't use it, a lot of times for me, when I work on it, I don't necessarily want to start it right away. So instead of implementing the plan, when it presents that plan and says, "Should I implement this or not?"You can tell it, just write that plan to a file, plan.md, and check that into your repo. And so this is really good if you're ideating on things you might want to do, but don't want to get started right away. Ideate, go back and forth with the model, surface assumptions, and then write those plans to a future log or a doc section, and you can come back to them later. I'll show you in a minute, if you'd rather put that into your ticketing system like Jira or Linear, you can send it there instead and have it write up a bug ticket without implementing any code changes. Cool. One maybe quick one. Again, about planning. If you had a system prompt or if it's just something that's built into Codex. It's built into Codex, but there are ways of providing extra context to Codex. So one of them is the agents.md file. So if you know a lot about your application already, the architecture, the purpose, the integrations, you should capture that in a file in your repo, agents.md, and that way, when the plan mode kicks in and Codex starts inspecting your project, it's not going to try to recreate those things or discover them. It's going to pull that in, say, "I already know what this is." So now it can be a little bit more focused when it goes and looks through your repo. Cool. We'll take a look at an agents.md a little bit later. All right. Awesome. Thanks, Alex. Yeah. Yep. All right. Let's take a look and see where we're at. So I see the style job is done, our app's still working on it, and as soon as we get a workable iOS app, we'll go ahead and start it in our simulator. I do want to show the Codex CLI here. So you can just, once it's installed, just type Codex in your terminal. It's another great interface. So, let's say I'm working in this agent desk demo. What code changes have I made so far? Similar interface. I also want to call out slash commands. So in the Codex CLI, if you hit a forward slash, you can see a lot of the things that we're using on the front end and the Codex app, they're available to you in slash commands. So things like plan mode, things like init will create an agents.md file and populate it for you in your project, creating, resuming threads, doing code review, skills, MTP servers, it's all there. So if you're wondering where all this stuff lives in the Codex CLI and that's where you're working, just hit the forward slash. It's really similar to the plus and some of the buttons on the screen. Also, model and reasoning are available there as well. Okay. Let's see where we're at. We have a bunch of code changes that we've made. We haven't checked anything in yet, so this might be a good opportunity for us to do a code review. So we see we're in our work tree where we're trying to solve the N+1 query issue. Small change set, nothing crazy, but one way we could handle software development, which I don't recommend, is just go ahead and check this in without review. There will be some, hopefully, CI testing you're doing and some amount of review, but sometimes I get it, and it's really tempting to just push your code in and get things done. Rather than putting that burden on the code base or on your team, it's really good practice to do some code review as close as you can to where you're doing that work. And Codex, in my opinion, and I think our customers have reported this as well, Codex does a particularly good job with code reviews, and I would say it's probably a market leader right now in code review. So forward slash, you'll see code review. It's also forward slash review. You can just hit that, and it allows you to either review your current branch against a base branch, or in this case, I have a bunch of uncommitted changes. I'll use that, and it's going to start the review. And notice when it does that, it actually opens up the diff here in the side panel. And if I maybe want to give Codex some feedback on what it's created, maybe I'm reviewing this for the first time, it's possible to make comments directly at a line here. So maybe I want to rename tickets to support tickets instead. Click comment there and notice that it'll actually attach that comment to your prompt as a comment. As well, when we did our review, it's surfacing an issue for us, and it's actually helping us decide what's the impact or severity of that issue. In this case, P2, not super severe, but it's something we probably want to deal with. And you'll see that surface as well as a finding. In this case, we have an API endpoint that seems to be multiplexed, and maybe it's something we want to separate out. So you could either dismiss that finding if you already know about it or you don't think it's important to work on right now, and you're certainly able to tell Codex to fix this right away. But in this case, I think what I'd rather do is something a little bit later. This, to me, feels like something that is not related to the N+1 query fix, and I want to make sure this commit and this merge request is really focused on specifically what it is that I want to do. So rather than work on it right now, I want to kick that down the line and add it to my ticketing system. So I'm using Linear, I've got a Linear project, RTA, and I'm just going to ask Codex to save this P2 finding as a ticket in Linear. So this Linear skill is going to know how to write a book ticket and send that out over the Linear app to, oh, I should say-In the RTA team. So I forgot to specify that. So along the way, you'll notice a summary tab here on the side. So if you click the side panel, anytime Codex uses a tool or a plugin, you'll see that listed in sources here. This is a fairly new entry, so it's next to the code review, the unified diff. And again, that side panel is up here on the upper right side. So now I've moved this P2 issue over to linear. If I refresh here, now I see that ticket is available to me now. So I had mentioned an integration like this for planning mode, which is great, but what we don't want is we don't want Codex and agentic tools to start complicating what we're working on by putting too many unrelated code changes in a branch or in a PR. So this is a really good way of connecting up your knowledge tracking and issue tracking systems so that you're still working in a really methodical way, but you're just able to do a lot more and faster using a tool like Codex. So we have done tests, we've done some design. We're still waiting on our iOS app. It's still working on it. Hopefully it finishes by the end of our session here. Otherwise, I can talk through it instead. Let's go back to... Let's see here. Back to our presentation. And we talked about code review. I mentioned humans are still in the mix, so it's not about just totally replacing the reviews. Let's talk a little bit now about skills while the iOS app continues to build. So skills are very related to apps and plugins, but a skill is specifically a reusable workflow. So let's say you're, and this is a pretty common way of looking at automation in general, let's say you find yourself doing the same thing multiple times in a row throughout the course of your work, whether it's trying to babysit a pull request that's out there, maybe you're doing a migration from another tool to Codex, maybe you're doing some maintenance on your code base, like looking for dead code paths or looking for opportunities to improve your architecture, looking for database issues. There's a lot of things that you could be doing over the course of a day. I would say even if you're not working on code, maybe you want to use Codex to keep up with the Slack messages. I'm sure I have a bunch of Slack messages piling up while we're doing this webinar. Maybe I can have Codex actually go and search those Slack messages, categorize them, and surface up just the most important things. We can use skills for that. Let's see what that looks like in practice. So I'll click the plugins here in the upper right. Notice there's a tab for skills. We've got a bunch of recommended and bundled skills that come out of the box with Codex. Playwright is a super useful one if you're doing front-end development. It'll spin up a test browser, navigate that for you. It can pull that into the loop while you develop. We've also got ones that I've created, that I've bundled with Codex here and set up as a user-level skill. Let's just take a look at one. We used the Figma implement design skill earlier, so I'll just pull that as an example. You'll see that a skill is essentially a prompt that... Oh, here we go. Here's our simulator. A skill is a prompt that encapsulates and kind of specifies the workflow that you want done, and we used this workflow earlier, so hopefully, you can relate to what we're talking about. So it lists the prerequisites. We know we have a Figma MCP server. We needed to provide a Figma URL for that design file, which we did, and we should have a project with some sort of established design system, component library, or something. I'll address this simulator app here in a moment, but the workflow for pulling in that Figma skill is fulfilling the prerequisites, getting your node ID of the project, fetch the design context, capture the references, et cetera. So this is something that I could have just had that Figma MCP server connected up to Codex, and I could've run through each of these steps methodically. And probably what happened in the past is whoever created this skill had done that process multiple times and kind of knew that this was what we wanted to accomplish, and then created a skill around that. Skills also can bundle in scripts that can run. So a lot of times, if Codex is doing something for you, it's not just calling the model, it's actually creating software that it runs to accomplish the task. This is a way for you to bundle that together and make that distributable to other members of your team and across the company. So if we open this up, you'll see that a skill is just a prompt, like we said. And if we were to open up this directory that the skill was located in, we might find that there are some prompts, et cetera, inside there. One really great thing that Codex is bundled with is a skill creator. So let's say we wanted to create a new skill that just looks for dead code paths and unreachable code and just general messy code that we want to get rid of. I could just do that every day, or remember to add that to my prompt every single time, but that's something that I know I want to repeat often. So I'll use the dollar sign to open up the palette of skills, and I'll search for the skill creator, which is a-- notice it's a system skill. It's bundled with Codex. And I'll just say, I'm going to dictate this. I want to create a skill that finds dead code and unreachable code paths in this code base. And separately, there's a skill installer that's also bundled, and I'll say install itSo these are skills that already exist that-- And I'm starting this in a work tree, which I probably didn't need to do. But it's going to create that skill, which is a prompt. It's going to create any software it needs. It's going to configure any MCP servers that maybe it doesn't have access to, and it's going to install that by saving it to my user home directory. Notice Codex home here, and it's going to open that or create a skills directory if it doesn't exist and install that skill. And as soon as it's installed, I can restart Codex, and I can invoke that in any future run. So even if you don't know how to create skills, but you have an idea for something that you want to encapsulate or turn into a repeatable workflow, just use a skill creator. I almost never edit skills directly or create them from scratch. You can improve them basically iteratively using the LLMs themselves. And therefore, if the skill that you're seeing is not up to snuff, you could of course edit it directly, but you could also adjust reasoning, pick a different model, something that might be working a little bit better for you. So I want to go back to the iOS app that we created. So again, what I probably should do here, I'm not going to look through this new application that was created. I should just do a code review. So I'm going to review this application against-- I'll just view the uncommitted changes. Notice that it used the Xcode build MCP server to actually start up the application in the simulator, and I have my iPhone 17 Pro simulator, and here's my support ticket inbox. So this is not totally working the way I expect, but I have the inbox here. What I was expecting is that I'd be able to click in and see the content. So why don't I go ahead and say, "This isn't working. When I click into a ticket item, it is blank." We'll send that out after it's done with its review. And because Codex has access to the simulator, it can go do that iteration directly. This I think is super cool. Again, I don't know how to develop iOS apps. I've never done it really before, but I don't really need to know all those details to get something functional, ready to go. And Codex, I'm showing you a lot of greenfield and very simple applications, but my challenge to you is just take your most complicated project and throw it at Codex to see what happens. I think you'll be really pleasantly surprised at what's possible. Last thing we'll do, I mentioned document changes, but we can throw our new tickets and things we want to do up to ticket tracking like Linear, but let's say I just want to understand this code base in the first place. So I'm going to switch this back to local, and I'm going to ask Codex, "Hey, create an ERP diagram for me that explains the relationship of the different entities in my database." Maybe I just want to visualize what this project's doing. You can do the same thing with architecture. Let's say you want to know what are the components of this project, how is it deployed, what does the architecture look like? And that's really good if you are working in a legacy code and just have no idea or it's really complicated. Let the model search and understand and develop those relationships and document it for you. So I'd say the other really cool use is I used to be a software consultant, and so a lot of times I would be looking at repos and projects I'd never seen before, and my task was to really quickly understand what I'm looking at so that I could be effective. And there are great techniques for that, and I certainly don't think you should throw that away, but I think using a tool like Codex to say, "Explain this for me, document it, build me a sequence diagram," that will help you really quickly inspect and reason about the code. I would say document that directly if it's not already part of the project or the README so that other people in the future don't have to go through that step in order to really understand what's going on. So we see it's created a ERD diagram for me, which I can then pull up in the sidebar here. You see previews of code files. And I can look around and see, okay, I got a user, I've got a session, I've got accounts. Those users are associated with tickets, and tickets have attachments and events, et cetera. Really, really great way of visualizing this. And notice I didn't have to go to the code at all to get this really clear understanding of what's going on in the code base. We won't go through this, but imagine you have an incident that's been called, you've got a war room going on. With the combination of plug-ins, skills, apps, you can connect up with your triage system, with your Teams, Slack or Teams chat, see what's going on. You can go out to your observability tool. Codex can look at the code. It can pull all of those sources together and try to diagnose the root cause of what's going on and help you not only determine the root cause, but also look at the solution for that and create a pull request. Actually, it's worth us looking at this. So if you are using a Git repo, notice there is a number of Git actions that you can access in your title bar here. It's obviously really important to make sure you're committing your code reasonably often. You can commit directly from the UI. And once you've committed, you can decide when you want to push to your remote. If you're connected to a GitHub repo, you can create a pull request there. Sometimes I'll be working in the main branch, and I realize later, like, oh, I actually should be working on a feature branch. You can just go ahead and create that branch here. You can either use the suggested name, which you can always configure the prefix here, and it will suggest the title of that branch based on the context of the thread, but you can choose your ownMaybe you have a different personal branch or you have different naming strategy at your company. Alex, are any questions queued up? I know we're getting towards the end. I want to shift away from demos here towards a little bit more of the how to work with it, but anything we should talk about before that? Yeah. Two that are linked with each other about skills and about agents, and the question is if there's a built-in system to-- how often they should be updated, both the agents and the skills, and if there's a built-in system for keeping them up to date. That's great. Great question. And actually should've shown this before. So let's look at the prompt here. We created a skill, and now it's installed, and we can access it later. But what if we find over time that the skill is just not performing the way we want? One way to do it would be to go and find that skill in your file system. In this case, here's the skill. We could always go edit this file. But maybe we actually want to create a self-improving skill or a self-improving system, and that's where automations really come into play. You'll notice automations are in the app. It's in the UI here in the sidebar. If you click into that, I have none right now, so there will be some suggestions around various categories. But I'll go ahead and click Create a new automation. And I can title this Self-improving skill. And I basically have a prompt to the effect of, I want you to continuously improve the... Let's just pick a random skill, the Codex Bug Finder. Look through recent sessions and see where it didn't perform well, and also just look at the skill itself and reason about where it can be improved. And let's say I want to do this every single morning at 9:00 a.m. I want to start my day by running that skill, perhaps, but I want to start before that by just improving it. And let's say I just have-- This is a pretty simple example, but let's say I have a super complicated skill and a super complicated code base. I'll crank that to extra high reasoning, and I'll pick the latest model. You can select a project to work in. In this case, I want to run locally, and I want to do that in my agent-dust-demo, so that actually looks like it's not there. Do it in the Codex project. And it'll have all the normal context we would have inside that Codex repo, but then be able to improve the skill and set that up as an automation. I'm running a little short on time here, so I won't go too much more into automations, but this is super powerful. I've got a bunch running in my personal Codex. Cool. Thanks. I'm going to run really quickly through a couple of other things that I think are important, and of course, this content can be accessed later. But let's just quickly unroll the agentic loop. So this whole time we saw that we're submitting prompts to Codex, and it's actually running in a loop. It's running model inference to get information back based on the prompts. But it's also reasoning about, do I need to go get extra context? Do I need to execute some sort of behavior via tool calls? And the Codex harness facilitates this really great loop, which if you give a really good definition of done in your prompt and a really good feedback loop, like tests, Codex can run for a really long time using this loop. And when it decides it's done or it needs your feedback, it will exit that loop and give you that response. And what that means is, Codex is doing a ton of work for you in the back end, but the job that you have as the orchestrator is to give it really good context. It means managing the context window somewhat, although Codex does a really good job of auto-compacting that for you. You need to make sure that you are providing relevant instructions, a definition of done, things that you don't want it to do, help it understand assumptions, and let it know where to go for additional context, whether that's a folder full of documentation or a tool that you prefer it use. And then if you, again, see yourself doing the same thing over and over again, it's time to create a skill or update the project context in your agents.md file. I also want to call out that Codex runs inside of an OS-level sandbox, which means there's a permission structure that can limit file access to known writable routes. It can control network access, and if you have your rule set and Codex wants to do something that is outside of the pre-configured rules, it will escalate approval to you. I've been working with Codex enough that I have already pre-configured mine to work pretty well with these demos, but if we had asked it to do something that it wasn't allowed to do, it would have prompted me to manually approve that action. So I recommend, especially if you're a new user, start in that mode so that you don't dangerously change things in your file system you don't expect. And as you start to work with Codex, you'll start to either refine that permission set or start to understand how it responds to certain prompts. And I do want to mention that Codex will automatically manage that context window for you. So if you're in a very long-running thread and you're starting to approach the limit of that context window, occasionally you'll see Codex just pause for a moment. It will automatically compress the context and reset that window with basically just enough information to keep you going and maintain a train of thought. It also means that if you find yourself, either Codex starts to get confused about what it's working on and you're working in a single thread for a really long time, and maybe you're working on multiple things inside that thread at once, split it into multiple threads and work in parallel. That's a really great way for you to just give Codex a better set of context that's really specific to what you're working on, and you'll tend to get better results from that.We've talked about a lot of these things before, but I do just want to mention a couple things here. Some teams at OpenAI are completely hands-off with code. They've delegated everything to Codex. That takes a little bit of work to get there. There's a really great blog that a lot of people have read about harness engineering that I recommend you go look at on our website. It is definitely possible, but it also requires you to really work with the tool and to understand how the agentic loop works, make sure it has all that context as close to the repo as possible. So think about that as you work with the tool afterwards. Yeah. Let's pause there. We have about three minutes left, so Alex, maybe give me one last question or two before we break. Yeah. Let's see. There are some questions about things you didn't talk about. Any tip on working explicitly, they were asking like .NET environments, Terraform, more like data engineering frameworks. Basically like- Yeah ... more outside of a pure software engineering. Codex is great for a lot of things. If you're in DevOps, if you're doing infrastructure, even if you're not doing any of the things I've listed, just open up the project in Codex. What I would say is, if you've never worked with it before, start with creating an agents.md file and just see what it comes up with. So you can prompt that way. If you're using the CLI, you can do /init, and it will build that context, that document for you, that outlines what the project is that you're working in, how it works. Just use that as some quick feedback. Is Codex really understanding what I'm working with in the first place? I would say the number of applications that I'm seeing for what Codex is useful for is extremely broad. So it's not just good at programming known frameworks, it has worked with mainframes, embedded software. It's really good for little side projects you're working on. Really, the sky's the limit. So I'll just reiterate the challenge I gave earlier. Throw your hardest problem at it and see what it comes up with. Cool. Thank you. So I think we're right at time, so thanks everyone, really, really appreciate it. Refer to our OpenAI developers page. There's a lot of good use case information there, a lot of good documentation. Our docs have an MCP server, so load that up in Codex and Codex can refer that directly and build out whatever it is that you need to be building. Yeah. And there are- Amazing. Thank you so much, Ryan, Alex, and everybody that joined today. I highly recommend keeping an eye on the OpenAI Academy and, as Ryan mentioned, our developer documentation, which we keep up to date. And yeah, we have a lot of exciting stuff coming up, especially for non-developers. So, excited to see you all in our next session. Have a great day.
