<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/dominic-sellitto-applied-ai-for-managers-2025-08-19 -->

# Dominic Sellitto (Applied AI for Managers)

<!-- vimeo: 1111457126 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hi, I'm Dominic Salito, and I'm a clinical Associate professor at the University at Buffalo School of Management. I also serve as the assistant director of our new Center for AI and Business Innovation. And I'm super excited to talk to you a little bit today about how I'm using AI and tools like Chat, GPT to help advance the curriculum and student outcomes at our school. One of the big claims to fame that business schools, or schools of management like us have is our ability to take technology and apply it to solve business problems. Now, AI is no exception to this, and ever since the initial boom, just a couple short years ago, right? We've seen an explosive demand from employers and students alike to figure out ways to integrate AI into their workflows to help solve business problems. And so our first foray and my first foray was really through some university funded initiatives to help get students not just engaged with using AI and comfortable with the technology, but also to learn how the backend works, right? Learn how to build their own applications, learn how to prompt engineer and get desirable outcomes. And that really led to the first iteration of the educational AI Support for Everyone platform, which I worked with a number of students to build, uh, over the past couple of years. Uh, and I wanna show you a little snippet of that right now because I think it's really, really cool what they've done. And so the idea behind Ease was really that what what students could do is create a series of micro applications, these small little bite-sized sort of things like a web form here, right? That folks could use to help solve problems within the university ecosystem, mostly other students. And one of the biggest things that our students came up with almost immediately was this idea that they wanted some sort of tool to help them in the job application process, right? And so what we did was we partnered with our career resource center internally, and we worked on building something that was easy for folks to use, right? It's a simple, short form, but that in the background leverages AI tools, prompt engineering, and uh, uh, uh, uh, and other mechanisms of, of, of, of ai, uh, uh, to run the prompts against an LLM, right? To generate a cover letter that adheres to the policies and procedures and standards that the school teaches our students, right? Of how to write a cover letter. And what we were finding when we were talking with students was they just don't write cover letters anymore, um, because it's optional on the job applications. And we found that many of them were missing a beautiful opportunity to really, really highlight their skills and experience and exposure. And so we built this application, and what it does is you can just type in, you know, a job like AI engineer at Open ai, and you can see I already kind of did this earlier, um, top three skills from posting Python machine learning and leadership. Why am I interested in this role? Um, I want to help advance generative AI tools. Where do we learn about this role company website? And we can input a current resume here, but I'm just gonna put, um, something random here. Product manager, uh, data analyst skills, Python, RSQL, but you would just copy and paste your resume here. And when we click submit, what we'll wind up finding out is that in the background, it runs an API call right to generative ai. Uh, and it generates an example of what a cover letter might look like. Now, of course, this one that I show here is going to be a little bit hampered based off of, you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, the information I provided to it. But the reality of it is, is that this can help students get a starting point, starting point to build something that they otherwise weren't going to build, right? Uh, to solve a problem that is helping them in their job search. Now, the really, really cool thing about this is that they can then take this right and modify it to suit their needs, right? Uh, and it's consistent, right? Because in the background, our students who developed it were learning things like Llama Index. They were learning how the open AI API works, they were learning about key criteria, like temperature, top key and such to affect change in the outputs of the model such that we can really drive it toward, toward the accepted use cases and guidelines of the university. And so over the years, what we've had is a number of students build micro applications for the EASE platform from cover letters to uh, uh, uh, uh, interview preparation simulation, right? So rather than just giving you a list of, of of questions, what they do is they simulate using things like chat GT's voice, right? Uh, uh, uh, back and forth, uh, the conversational elements to, uh, simulate an interview for a particular job role. Um, we've had students that use this to help develop, uh, uh, uh, student planning tools, for example, upload all of your syllabi, and it will generate you a semester long calendar of events, right? There's so many really unique and creative ideas that have kind of spawned out of this, that, uh, the platform continues to grow and be used by students for their capstone projects, for course projects, and for just general kind of experience in a sandbox to play in, uh, to learn how to build ai, uh, driven, empowered applications. And what that's really spun into is the formalization of the course, uh, which we call NGS six thirty six, that's applied AI for managers, and that's a graduate level course, uh, where we teach students the foundations of generative ai, right? And not just the foundations of generative AI from a statistical perspective, right? Or an algorithmic perspective, but from an applied perspective. And we aim to really get students quickly into how is it that we, uh, uh, uh, develop entrepreneurial ideas? How is it that we define a problem? And how is it that we apply AI to solve that problem? And what that really winds up happening is we get all of these really, really cool outputs from our students, right? So we've got students that are, um, uh, uh, learning how to build their own custom GPTs in that course and fine tuning, um, and using tools like chat GBT to generate a data set that they then can use to fine tune an AI model, um, to do something, um, um, more specific. We're also, um, have students that get a little bit super creative with it. They learn how to code with ai, but through the lens of a creative endeavor that's really fun for them, like, uh, building a video game. And so you can see a brick breaking game down below that, uh, uh, students had, had, had, had worked on to build, and in the process learned about the importance of instructional prompts, right? How it is that giving an example will match you a better result or a result that's more aligned to maybe what it is that you were expecting. And how the process of iteration goes when it comes to using AI to enhance, um, coding endeavors. Uh, we also build retrieval, augmented generation, um, or rag systems whereby students will use, uh, uh, vector databases to, uh, vectorize all of their, uh, documents, right? And, and build their own sort of, uh, uh, uh, uh, knowledge bases that the LLMs can then reference in order to solve very, very specific business problems, um, and help enhance overall productivity for employees. And this is just the tip of the iceberg of what our students are working on. Um, we have collaborations with our theater and dance group for more artistic endeavors. We have, uh, collaborations with medical research institutes here where we're building AI tools and, and, and applying them to solve these real world challenges. And it's had an incredible impact on our students. Um, it's every day, right? Because we measure our performance based on student success. Did they get into that job role that they wanted? Did they get their dream job? And we're seeing that students with the knowledge of how to apply ai, right? How to build these tools, how to solve problems. We're seeing them get jobs at national laboratories. We're seeing them get jobs at major organizations and data engineering roles that are, that are supercharged by ai. And it's just really incredible to watch students who maybe come in with no coding experience, no programming experience, no technical experience, to go from zero to hero, um, using things that are open AI compatible APIs, uh, and and Python to code, and using The AI to help them in that process of learning to speed up and iterate and build, um, MVPs or minimum viable products much more quickly than they otherwise would have. And so I'm super excited for what the future holds as the technology keeps advancing and the students get more and more proficient in it, because what we've been able to accomplish so far has been transformative. And I think it's only gonna get better. So I'm super excited to be working with this, with this Frontier technology, and I'm super excited, um, to continue driving innovative curriculum, uh, to help the next generation of students.
