<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/intro-to-codex-april-09-2026 -->

# Intro to Codex (April 09, 2026)

<!-- vimeo: 1183204980 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hello everybody. Welcome to Codex 101. This will be an introduction to Codex. If you're not familiar with what Codex is, you're in exactly the right place. This is OpenAI's way to build with agents. So just a disclaimer before we get started. Today's webinar is primarily focused towards engineering type coding use cases. But I'll even broaden that just to say that this is for builders, because that's what Codex enables us all to do. If you have great ideas, but you're maybe coding adjacent, Codex is still great for you to empower you to be a builder. There are many other ways to use Codex too, by the way. I personally myself, I'm on the Codex team here, and I use Codex all the time for my knowledge work use cases, like using it for Slack and using it to check Notion. But today's session will primarily be focused on how should we use Codex, OpenAI's way to build with agents in the engineering workflows. Can we use it to write new software? Can we use it to test software? So today's session will start with a bit of an introduction about Codex, spend about five minutes there. Then we'll talk about what makes Codex special, which is really the Codex agentic loop. And then we're going to just show a whole bunch of demonstrations looking at the Codex app, looking at sub-agents. We'll talk about all sorts of different features and ways that you can get started with Codex. So let's dive in first by looking at this kind of crazy chart. And this crazy chart, to me, feels a lot like the last few years in AI have felt. There is so much going on, and so we always have to keep up to speed on, all right, what's next? Where are we going? And so when it comes to tools like Codex, I really see this as basically three phases that have occurred. Originally, a few years ago, we were using AI to do sort of like an automatic code complete. You would type a little bit, and then AI would suggest the next thing. Maybe it would complete a function for you. And then after that, we got into the world of AI pair programming. I had kind of a chat window open, and I was still writing code, but maybe I was ping-ponging back and forth between the chat. But really where we've gotten and what Codex is all about right now is about agentic delegation. So not only am I sitting there writing code and having a chat window beside me, but I'm really empowering Codex as a tool that I can delegate entire end-to-end tasks to, and that's really what we'll talk about today. So that's where I see things going in terms of coding and where I see Codex fitting in today. So Codex is a lot of things, but it is the same agent everywhere that you're going to choose to build. We have a great Codex appThat's available for macOS and for Windows. And this is mostly what I'm going to show you today. If you want to use Codex within the editors that you're familiar with, you can use that there as well. So we have plugins for VS Code, for Xcode, the JetBrains suite. Codex is available in a lot of editors as well. And then finally, we have a first-class terminal-based CLI. So if you want to use it in iTerm or in Terminal or some other platform, Codex is there too. So how do you actually get started? I want to make sure to point this out. This isn't going to be necessarily like a hands-on workshop, but if there's one thing you take away, it's probably how you actually get started with Codex. So if you want to use the CLI, you can install it via npm or Homebrew. If you want to use the Codex desktop app, just head over to openai.com/codex and click Download. And then if you want to use it within any of the IDEs, you can open up your IDE's extension pane and search for Codex. So it's super easy to get started with Codex. I highly recommend you start with the app because it's a nice way to get started, and then if you want to choose the CLI or editor extensions down the road, you can always do that. One thing I want to talk about for a second is just like what makes Codex special? What is the Codex agentic loop? So really everything kind of starts with a prompt. You'll say, "Hey, Codex, help me plan a new feature," or, "Hey, Codex, how does this piece of software work?" And then model inference happens. We're all probably pretty familiar with this now. The model is going to do some amount of thinking, maybe it's going to respond to you. But really what makes Codex special is this loop right here called the agentic loop. So the model is going to call one or maybe even dozens of different tools to achieve your initial prompt. It might search your files, it might write new code, it might call external connections, and it's going to continue doing that over and over again inside of a loop until it's finished. So that's what makes this whole thing, I would say, agentic versus just using a model for a question-answer sort of state. So what happens when you do this over time is that you end up creating conversation history. And that conversation history is like a working memory for Codex. Now, Codex's models have a limit to the working memory context, but if there's one pro tip I want to give you today, it's that you really don't have to worry too much about that working memory anymore because we will intelligently compact that context. So your agents can basically work an infinite amount of time. There's actually a lot of teams and OpenAI team members internally who are starting to switch to just using one Codex thread for everything and letting it compact over and over and over, and it's getting really good. So that's the gist of Codex, what it is, and the agentic loop. The rest of this webinar is going to focus on demos, but I'm sure there are probably a few questions already. So let's just take a pause and get a few questions from the audience. I'll invite my team member, Sean, up on stage. Are there any good questions that we can answer live? Sure. So we have one question from Jordy, and he asked, "Is it better to use macOS than Windows for development with AI and Codex?" Any thoughts there? That's a great question. Look, there are millions, probably dozens, maybe hundreds of millions of people using both macOS and Windows. And so we're trying really hard to make the experience just as good on both platforms. We have tons of people using Mac, we have tons of people using Windows, and we actually have tons of people using Linux as well, although that's just in the CLI, in the editor extensions. So for me, I would say use whatever you are most comfortable with. I'm most comfortable with a Mac, so I develop on a Mac, and I use Codex on a Mac. If you're comfortable in Windows, by all means, use the Codex Windows app. Great. Thanks, Ankur. And we have one more question from Troy, too. And he asked, "Does Codex recognize history from ChatGPT?" Great question. This is a really great question, and I think you'll see over time more of this will start to converge. Today, Codex is not reading history from ChatGPT, but maybe in the future, that's like a plugin or something that you could do. There are some combinations today, like for example, in ChatGPT, if you've got a specific app installed, there might be a plugin that pulls that app connection into Codex, and I'll show you how that works. But the answer to your question is no. Today, it's not referencing any sort of memories or chats from within ChatGPT. Great. Thanks, Ankur. That's all for now, but we'll touch back in a little bit to see if there are more questions. Thanks. All right, cool. So I want to talk now about what does it mean to actually use Codex to build. How can we use Codex throughout different workflows? Now, there's lots of different ways, and this is kind of a noisy slide to show that there's lots of different ways that you can use Codex as your building partner. You can use it to help you plan different tasks. You can use it to help you design. Should we go with option A or option B? And maybe even it'll spec that out. Obviously, you can use it to build. You can use it to write the code, but you could also use it to help you write tests. Is the code working how you expect it? You can use it to review your code, so maybe you want to know, did we miss anything? I love using Codex for documentation, so especially in my role where I have to understand all of the new features that Codex is coming up with every week, I use it to document those all the time. And then finally, because Codex is an incredibly powerful computer user, you can actually use it for your deployments and for your maintenance, and we'll show you a few examples of that as well. So I would say here the main point is broaden your thinking about what Codex can be used for. And I think a lot of people just sort of think that Codex and coding agents in general are good at writing code. And that's true, but zoom out. Codex is super good at the planning stages. It's good at documentation. It's really good across what we're calling the software development life cycle. It's good across the life cycle. So it's time to build together. I'm going to show you a lot of things. So we'll look at read-only prompts. We're going to build features. We're going to look at plan mode. We'll look at a lot of different things, and to do that, we'll actually just look inside of the Codex app itself. So if you've never seen the Codex appHello, this is the Codex app. It's native to macOS and Windows, and there's a lot of things going on here, so let me just help orient us. On the left-hand side here, I have two projects open. So number one, I have Codex open. Codex is actually open source, the CLI and the app server part of it, so you can actually open Codex yourself within Codex. And then I have an app here called Agent Desk Demo, which we're going to use for a few demos. So these are the projects that I'm going to work on within Codex. There's lots of other features that we'll get into, but let's just get started with kind of a simple use case. Like I said, I like to use Codex to document things all the time. One of the recent features that we released is subagents. So I'm going to ask Codex, and I'll just use this great dictation button, "Hey, Codex, can you use subagents, spawn a few subagents to tell me about the subagent feature?" And so actually, this is quite meta here. I'm going to spawn subagents to tell me about subagents. And within Codex, you can choose which model you want to use. I'll use GPT 5.4, and I'll just leave that at low reasoning, and I'll click send. And so this is a great way to get started with Codex if you've never used it. Open up one of the repos that you have available to you and start asking some questions about that repo. So here you'll see Codex starts to spawn different subagents. One of the things that I love about this Codex desktop app is the user interface. So now I can see what's been spawned, and I can actually go and dig into those different subagents as they're doing the task. Subagents is kind of like a powerful feature, and you don't have to start there, but it is meant to be something that's made easy for you if you want to use it. So while this is working, we'll just go off and actually start another task, which is one of the other powerful pieces of Codex in general. Because we've made it easy to work in different projects and work in different threads, you can just switch projects and switch tasks really easily. So we'll let that work, and that'll stay working. And then meanwhile, I'm going to open up another thread in my Agent Desk demo. What is this app? Okay. What is this app? What is this app? This is another great way to use Codex, and again, we're kind of starting at the beginning stages of using Codex. This is like, if you just want to open a repo that you have access to, you can ask it a lot of questions about the different projects that you have available to you. So we're just going to let Codex answer what is this app and see what it comes up with. So you'll notice that it's reading different files. It's got about eight files under its belt. And as it does its work, Codex is going to return to you an answer, and it's also giving you some sort of intermediate thinking steps. So this app is a local demo help desk system. That's exactly right. I knew that because this is the demo for today. So I'm going to say, "Is this app already running on my computer? And if so, can you open it in Chrome?" I'm showing this because I really like showing that Codex has access to your computer. So all of those complicated things and terminal commands that you didn't quite ever actually fully memorize, you can have Codex do that sort of work for you. So Codex said, yes, this app is running, and... Oh, it's not running. Could you run it? And again, if you don't remember how to do something, Codex can actually go and do those tasks for you. So it's running NPM run dev, and it is not working because this is a live demo. But one cool thing is Codex actually has a terminal built into it, and so if I wanted to go off and do the task myself, I can just do NPM run dev, and Codex will start the app. And okay, so it is hopefully going to run our app there. Ah. Before the demo, I had reset everything, and so this didn't exist yet. It is starting now, and I should be able to see the demo app. Okay, so this is the app that we're going to be working in for this demo. This is a support desk, a sort of dummy app. Let's look at some of the things that we can build with Codex. Maybe my designer came to me and they said that, "Hey, this ticket inbox doesn't look quite right. I want you to sort of change how the pills are looking." Now, in the before time, I might go back and forth with my designer. Maybe they would send me a design file, and I would have to figure out all on my own how to build that. But this time, my designer actually just sent me a design file, and they said, "Hey, this is exactly what I want it to look like." So here's one cool part of Codex. When using it with the different tools available in your ecosystem, whether that's Figma in this case or any other tools, I can actually just open up Codex and I can say, "Hey, Codex, I want you to use the Figma implement design skill to change the ticket inbox to look like this link." And so this is an design example of how I'm going to use Codex to work within my ecosystem. So I had a skill installed, and while this is running, I'll actually show you what a skill looks like. So I can go into the Codex plugins and click on skills, and I'll show you the Figma implement design skill. So this is a set of procedures. It's a way to teach Codex something that it didn't already know. And in this case, it's teaching Codex how to turn Figma designs into code. And so using that skill, Codex is now able to go off and pull information from Figma. So let's see what that looks like. It's actually calling the Figma MCP, and it's actually getting a screenshot of that design down from Figma, so it looks just like this. And then Codex is digesting that information, and it's going to go off and make that change.So the broader topic here that I want to talk about is how cool Codex is when you connect it to your ecosystem. So we call this plugins. Plugins basically combine together different skills, different connectors, and that does work with your existing ChatGPT apps and connectors that you have installed. And so there are lots of different plugins that are available today. This just launched last week or two weeks ago, so you'll expect many, many, many more plugins to come. So one plugin here is GitHub, or another plugin, for example, is Slack. I want to show you a demo using Slack that I love to do this, and I do this all of the time. And I love dictation too, so I'll say, "Hey, Codex. Use the demo Slack MCP to tell me what features we were talking about building recently." And so in this case, obviously, I'm telling it to use the demo Slack MCP because it's a demo. And you'll see here that it's going to ask me, "Hey, can I actually go ahead and go and search Slack?" And so I'll allow that. And it's going off, and it's searching through my Slack threads. So it's now combining different information from across my ecosystem to tell me, "Hey, what is it that we're looking to build?" And so it's found a cluster of recent planning threads, and we'll let that work. And it's fetching more and more threads, so now Codex is getting more information about what I have going on in my Slack. And then, by the way, there's other threads running at the same time. So the sub-agent feature was that thread was returned, and now I know, okay, I've spawned my sub-agents, and now I know what sub-agents are. And the update to the inbox table is done as well. We can go and check that out. And so now you see that one's different. And the Slack thread came back as well, and it said, "Hey, there was a conversation talking about bulk assigning tasks from the inbox. There was also a conversation about ticket tags." So I can ask Codex, "Can you come up with a plan for the ticket tag feature?" So you'll notice when you ask Codex to come up with a plan, it'll actually tell you, "Do you want to use Plan mode?" Plan mode is a really great way to work back and forth with Codex to establish exactly what you want to build before actually diving into the building itself. This is a great general pro tip when working with coding agents. It's an excellent way to get a good result to actually go back and forth with it for a while and decide on an aligned path forward. And so with the Plan mode, it's actually going to go ahead and look through my code base, and it'll actually ask me a few questions before proceeding, and then it'll come up with a plan. So I'll let that go ahead and continue. So for V1, how should the allowed tag list be managed? So this is creating alignment, basically. And I'm just going to answer whatever its recommended questions are for the brevity here. And then look at that. Codex is actually coming up with a plan to show me what it thinks we should implement. So this is a great way to come up with alignment before Codex goes off and implements something. So I could read this, and I say, "Okay, Codex wants to implement the following things." In this case, I could actually tell Codex, "No, I want you to implement something differently," and that's furthering the alignment between you and the agent. But instead, I'll just say, "No worries. Go ahead and implement this plan." So now Codex knows, yes, this is exactly what I wanted. And so where did we start? We started with asking Codex to pull context from my Slack, for example, and then we created a plan, and now Codex is off and building. So again, there are so many different ways that you can be using Codex. I've used it for documentation. I've used it with my design tool to create and code a different design. I've used it to explain an application, and now I'm using it actually to create and build new features. But development, as you know, does not stop there. Let's say that I wanted to review the code that Codex came up with here. So built into Codex is a review step. I can actually just say, "Hey, Codex, can you do a code review against the base branch?" So now Codex is going to spawn a special agent to review the code changes that it made to update the UI of my ticket inbox. So not only is Codex planning and implementing changes, in this case, I'm using it to actually review the code that it wrote. And it'll go through, and it'll do that code review. Now, what if we wanted to use Codex to review code in general? I actually created a skill, and I'll show you the skill first. So I go to Plugins, I go to Skill, and I call it my Code Cleanup skill. This is a way that I taught Codex to look throughout my repository and find great examples of places that might use a little bit of tech debt cleanup, for example. So I'm going to try this, and I'm going to say, "Review the repository, identify the top cleanup values, and use the code cleanup skill." For this one, by the way, I'm going to use GPT 5.3 Spark. If you've never heard of Spark, this is one of OpenAI's new models that uses our Cerebras partnership to go really, really, really fast. You'll eventually see more and more models on that. But you'll see the inference here is happening very quickly. It's reading through dozens and dozens of files and basically using the skill, the code cleanup skill, to identify areas of improvement for my repository. So not only am I using Codex to build new features or to review the code that it's generatedI'm using Codex to actually help me improve my code base over time. And so the agent is still working, it's going through, and it's looking through all the files, and it's coming up with, in this case, the top 10 recommended cleanup steps. So we'll let that finish, and I want to show you one way that with the Codex app, you can actually set this on sort of like an autopilot. So Codex is saying it now has enough to build some meaningful recommendations. It's doing a quick final pass, but pretty sure we should get our 10 recommendations. In the meantime, Sean, while we let this run, do you want to come up and ask a few questions that have come up in the chat? Hey, Ankur. Yeah, absolutely. We have a ton of great questions in chat that came up. So we can start out with Ciprian. He asked a couple questions. First, he asked, "Are skills available in the Codex context, and are we expected to use built-in skills or it'd be better to create our own?" Any thoughts on that? Great question. So skills are discoverable here from within the skills pane. Now we have some built-in skills that we advertise to you, but I highly recommend having, I would say, personal skills that you yourself create that relate to the workflows that you personally or your company works on. And then if you want to upgrade those skills into sort of common bundles of skills, you can even create your own plugins and distribute those amongst your teams. So I would definitely check out the skills that we bundle, but then, yes, absolutely, you're going to end up making a lot of your own skills just like we have. That's fantastic. Thanks for sharing. And we also had another question as well. "Are there any best first use cases for non-engineers or adjacent roles to get value from Codex safely?" What do you think of that? Yeah. Oh my gosh, there are so many. I would say that if you are using a lot of apps inside of your business, which I'm sure that you are, take a look at plugins, and if there's a plugin out there that matches an app that you're using today, whether it's Gmail or Slack or Google Drive, install some of those plugins and then focus your use case really around those connections, because that's where I see a lot of value when using Codex as for my non-engineering use cases. A good example would be maybe using it for Slack. And I'll actually show you in a little bit how you could maybe set up a recurring Slack use case that would be great as a first non-engineering task. Fantastic. You heard it, folks. Plugins are the way to go here. And then we had Narendan ask us a question, "Is Codex good at any specific language and bad at any other?" Any thoughts on this one? Yeah, it's a great question. I would say no. The Codex is trained on a lot of different languages, and I've seen some cases where Codex actually does really well at somewhat obscure languages too, or proprietary sort of markup languages. If you're not getting the results that you want out of Codex, you can always maybe write a skill to teach it a little bit about your language. But if it's a mainstream language, I mean, anything from Python, Java, PHP, JavaScript, TypeScript, whatever it is, Codex is going to do really well. That's great. And another question, too, that we had from Devin, "What are the most effective ways to reduce Codex consumption besides dropping to lighter models?" Any sort of best practices for this? Yeah. I'll show you one best practice live, actually. So I'll say, "Show me my agents.md file." If you're not familiar with an agents.md file, this is the file that's loaded every time that Codex runs inside of one of your repositories, and this is like the entry point for Codex. So what is this app? What are some of the key directories? How do you set it up? How do you do testing? The reason I'm pointing out agents.md for this particular question is because if you give Codex some guidance about where things are and in general how this application is structured, then every time you run Codex on that repository, it doesn't have to spend time figuring all that out on its own. So you could actually see implementing an agents.md file cut down on your token usage. That's fantastic. That's a really great practice, and I hope all of you heard that one. Yeah. Well, cool. And it looks like there's one more question. Yeah. Sure. One more. What is the price model of Codex? Is it subscription or API-based? I think this one's super important that we cover. Yeah. There are both out there. So you can use Codex if you are using it within your ChatGPT subscription. And very recently, actually, we launched a completely pay-as-you-go model for Codex that just works off the API. If you just wanted to use your API key, you can actually sign into Codex with an OpenAI API key, and then all of your traffic will just use the API token model. So we have both. You can use it within your subscription, or you can use it directly against the API pay-as-you-go. Awesome. Thank you, Ankur, and we'll get back to the demo. Appreciate the questions. Yeah, of course. Okay, so the last thing that we were doing is we had Codex use my code cleanup skill to create, okay, what are basically the top areas where I could clean up this repo? Now, that's cool in of itself, but it would be kind of a pain for me to have to run that or remember to run that. So instead, I'll say, "Run this every Friday at 3:00 PM and update the list." And so one of the best features of the Codex app is called Automations. And so Codex interpreted that, created an Agent Desk Cleanup Review automation, and so now you'll see I'm within the Automations pane, and every single Friday, it's going to re-rank the top 10 areas for me to clean up my code base. So-Think of all of the different things that you could do with the power of Codex combined with the power of an automation. So here, I'm going to have it every Friday maintain an up-to-date list of what we can be cleaning up within our repo, and then maybe I could actually have another automation that goes and looks at that list and accomplishes those. You can imagine many other automation examples, and actually I'll just delete this one so you can see some of our startup ones. So you can summarize yesterday's Git activity. I said I would come back to this from the Q&amp;A. You could actually create an automation using Slack, and this is something that I personally do, and I know that a lot of other OpenAI employees do. You could use it with Slack every single morning. It could give you a brief. What are the messages that you sent yesterday? You could use that with your email and your Slack to give you a fuller brief. So automations is a very powerful way to use Codex for engineering, but also to use it for just generally any sort of knowledge work. I want to show you one pro-level usage that we have of Codex. So again, trying to think of the ways that you can use Codex beyond just writing code. I'll switch to Codex's repo right here. So like I said, Codex is an open source project, and you can actually go and look at us on GitHub. And you'll notice that because we're a very popular open source project, we get lots and lots and lots of different pull requests all the time. And in those pull requests, in order to make sure that we have a robust process around it, we run lots of automated checks for all of our pull requests that come in, and this really helps us to make sure that the pull requests that are coming in, they align with the rest of the statutes of our code base. But our engineers found that when a pull request came in, they were having to go and look at all of these checks and see, oh my gosh, okay, this thing's failing. Or maybe this hasn't run yet, and I have to now wait 15 minutes. And it was causing them a lot of time. So they turned to Codex to solve this issue. So with a pull request ID, what they did is they created this skill called the PR Babysitter, and this is a real thing that our engineers use. So the skill was PR Babysitter, and you just had to plug in the ID of the pull request that came in. And so now what used to be a completely human-driven process where you had to go and you had to look through the pull request, and you had to look through each one of the tests and see, okay, has it passed? Why hasn't it passed? Is it failing? And you actually have the PR Babysitter now sit there and watch the pull request for you. So it's going to run this now for the next 30 minutes until everything is passed. I have an example from a previous one, and it actually ran this for, I think, about 30 minutes. Codex sat there and watched the pull request. It watched to make sure all of the tests that were meant to run were running, and then finally it tells you, "Hey, you're good to go. This one's ready to merge." So again, just trying to think of the areas that you can use Codex outside of just the standard using it to write code. That's one way that the Codex team is using Codex. I'm going to finish with one last demo that is kind of fun that-- I'm not sure why the inbox was broken there, but one last demo that shows you how you can use Codex as a little bit of a teammate. So I have this big button that says Trigger Incident. This is not one that you would want to click inside of a real website, but it's a demo. And so, oh, no, I've triggered an incident. I've got this page that's telling me something's wrong, and I've got some sort of monitor that's telling me something's wrong. And so historically, if I was an engineer in this case, I would have to go and I'd have to look and, okay, what is going on here? There's some inbox latency that's spiking. And I'd look at the monitor and I'd say, "Huh, yeah, the inbox latency is spiking." But I actually wrote a skill, and our teams internally do a similar thing, called Triage Page, and I just plug in the incident ID, the metric ID that I was given. And so in this skill, I actually taught Codex how to go and fetch all the information about the different pages that happen inside of my system. And so in this case, it's actually going to go and it's going to get that page, and it's going to get the information. Then it's going to call something to actually acknowledge that. It's going to go off and it's going to get more data about the page. It's going to run some searching for some logs. And so what I did inside of this skill is I actually taught Codex to do exactly what we would do in this sort of situation. So we would go and look at that page, we would go and search the logs, and then we would go and figure out basically what's going wrong. And so now Codex tells me, because I've taught it how to search our logs, what was going on with that incident. So in this case, it tells me there's a root cause. There was inbox latency because I created some sort of bad code on purpose, and now I can tell Codex, "Go ahead and fix that." So I'm using Codex throughout my ecosystem with a combination of plugins, with a combination of skills, to try and empower it as much as possible to be able to do more than just writing code. So this is Codex. It can do so much across design, across planning. You can use it within knowledge work tasks, like with Slack and Gmail, and yeah. That's the basics of the demo. I can stop again here for some more Q&amp;A. I'm sure there are some questions. Sean, if you want to come up for a few minutes? Yeah. Hey, Ankur. So we have a couple more questions for you. So one is a really good one that I think we get oftentimes. Will Codex keep working if I close the application? Can you speak a little bit to that? Yeah. Today, no, Codex will not keep working if you close the application. We're thinking a lot about different ways that we can enable that sort of behavior, but doing that securely and doing that robustly. Right now, Codex does require you to have the application open. I will say, Codex itself, the Codex CLI, you are able to run that programmatically. So if you wanted to, let's say, wire Codex up inside of a CI/CD job or within a virtual machine that you're running, you can totally do that. We do also have a managed version of Codex called Codex Cloud, which can run Codex inside of OpenAI's own containers. So I'd highly recommend checking out Codex Cloud as well. So both of those options might help you. Great. Thanks for the clarification. And someone also asked too, is there any difference between using Codex the application versus selecting GPT 5.4 on the model itself in an IDE like VS Code? So any differences- Yeah ... between where someone uses Codex? Yeah. This is a great question and one that we get a lot. I think this stems from OpenAI being slightly bad at naming. We did name, unfortunately, two independent things Codex. So there is Codex the model, like Codex GPT 5.3 Codex, and then there's Codex the products, so that's the Codex desktop app, the Codex CLI. The Codex model is a very good model, and the Codex app is a very good app, and these things are designed to work best together. So the Codex model is trained to use all of the features of the app and the CLI and the IDE extensions, and vice versa, the app and the CLI and the IDE extensions are meant to make the most out of our models. So while you can independently use the Codex models inside of other platforms, our recommendation to get the best performance out of it is to use the Codex model inside of the Codex surfaces. I hope that makes sense, and in the future, maybe we will name things slightly differently there. Yes, we'll try our best. There's time for one more question too. Someone's asking a little bit of some best practices again. So they say that their agents.md file is comprehensive, but it keeps on growing with edge cases, workflows, guardrails, so on and so forth. Is that considered a best practice, or is there sort of this natural delineation where you want to break that up a little bit? Can an agents.md file get a little bit too robust, if that makes sense? This is a really good point, and the short answer is yes, it can get too robust, and the way to prevent that is through progressive disclosure. I think if you were to Google that, you'll start to see lots of information about this. Basically, the agent doesn't need to know everything all the time. Like if the agent is working on a front-end task and you have some information in your agents.md about back-end code style guidelines, the agent doesn't need to know that at that moment in time. So I would think of your agents.md file more as like a map or an index, and so say, "Here are my front-end guidelines. Here's the file where they are. Here are my back-end testing guidelines. Here's the file where that is." And then as Codex goes through a task, it might decide, "Oh, I need to go and grab those front-end guidelines," or, "I need to go and grab those back-end guidelines," but it's not bloated with them every single time. So in summary, use your agents.md file like a map. Okay, great. Thanks for the clarification. Great. All right. So I want to share some slides on a lot of what we covered because we did go a little bit fast. Number one, Codex is open source, so always if you have questions about it, I love going into the Codex repository and using Codex and asking it those questions. You can also see how we develop Codex with Codex here. So we talked a lot about skills. Skills are basically markdown files that codify a certain process. They can have metadata. You can actually include scripts and references and assets into those skills to make them even more robust. We talked a little bit about sub-agents. So Codex natively has the capacity to spawn other agents. This is a powerful feature. I would highly encourage you just to try it. It makes sense in cases where the work makes sense to be paralyzed. So maybe there's clear delineation that I can explore different parts of a code base with sub-agents, or I can work on different parts of a project with sub-agents. So you can use that natively within the Codex app or the CLI or any of our surfaces. We talked a little bit about code review. This is a great built-in feature for you to use Codex. You just do /review inside of the app. There is a cloud version of code review too. If you're using GitHub, you can actually enable Codex code review automatically to review your PRs. We talked about plan mode. I highly recommend using plan mode, or in general, just going back and forth and having discussions with your agents. That's a great way to reach alignment before you actually jump into coding something. We talked about automations. There are so many great use cases for automations. These are available within the Codex desktop app. So to find your own schedule of how you want this to run, maybe use it to clean up your code base, maybe use it to create yourself a daily digest. Automation's a very powerful feature. So a few tips that I'll leave you with. Instead of really honing in on the perfect prompt, focus about how do you get the right context, and we'll talk about that in a second. And teaching Codex how to validate its outcomes and using the agent to learn, so asking it questions about your code base. So a great prompt template that I like to say is tell Codex what you want to do. Give it some pointers about where in the code base that might work, and again, that'll help with your token efficiency. Tell it some constraints. Say that, "I want you to use this design style," or, "I don't want you to use this design style." And then the last part, this is really important in terms of teaching Codex how to validate that it's actually done the task you wanted it to do. So maybe finish your prompt with telling it, "I want you to run X, Y, and Z test," or, "I want you to open a browser and check that the thing you built actually works."And then we talked a little bit about agents.md already, but agents.md, like we've talked about, is a map to help you make the most of Codex within your repositories. Agents.mds have key directories. They talk about the important modules. In the agents.md, you can teach Codex how your application works, where do you install it, how do you build it, all of those information. You can teach it a bit about your conventions, your engineering guidelines, and then if your agents.md is growing quite a bit, you can start to use it as an index and point it actually to subfiles itself. So a few tips that I'll leave you with. Just try downloading Codex and using it inside of a real repo. Maybe just ask it some questions. Ask it, "What is this repo? How do I run it?" Or ask it maybe to plan a new feature with you. Then set up your agents.md if you haven't already. Start to orient Codex to your code base. And then finally, give it a real hard task. Codex and OpenAI's models really do excel at the harder tasks that you give it. You can, of course, use it for any task, but I would like to challenge you to give it a really hard task and see how that works. So in closing, we will have many more additional sessions scheduled in the future for advanced deeper dives into some of these topics. I hope that this was a good introduction to Codex. If we've left any time, we can do some more live Q&amp;A. I will leave that up to Sean. But thank you. Here, I'll leave you with some resources. Again, I was Ankur Kumar. I'm on the Codex team. Please check out our documentation, our different Codex cookbooks, and the Codex changelog. Fantastic. Thank you so much, Ankur. This was a fantastic session. And we do have just a few more questions from the group over here that we can close out with. So Jasmine asked, "Can I use Codex with programs like Excel to create or read files to add pivot tables or other graphs?" Can you speak more to the Excel sort of dynamic here? Yeah, that's a great question. To be honest, I don't know the current state of this. I know that Codex can modify the underlying Excel files. I know that Codex-- I use it all the time for CSV manipulation, but I don't know the exact answer to the state of using it for the richer Excel features, let's say. So sorry, I don't have the latest on that for you. No worries. And so Luis, he also asked, is agents.md created automatically, or is that something that he needs to create manually? Can you speak to that a little bit? That's a great question. So agents.md is not automatically created. Within the CLI, there is a handy-- You can do /init to actually have Codex crawl your repo and create one for you. But otherwise, you could actually just ask Codex to create one. You can say, "Hey, Codex, can you help me create an agents.md?" So it's not automatically created for you, no. Okay, great. That makes sense. And Akash also asked a little bit more about any sort of best practices if someone wants to use multiple coding agents like Codex or somebody else within a single repo. Are there any best practices for doing that? Should you pick one over the other? Is there sort of complementary benefits from doing that? Yeah. Sorry, does this question about multiple coding agents, like using multiple companies' coding agents? Yeah, exactly. Correct. Exactly. Yeah. I would say one great way that you could use Codex in that case is to maybe review the other coding agents' work. It's almost like having perspectives and having different eyes on a set of problems. So that would be one way that I would say to do that. I would say whenever you're considering something like that, just make sure that you have your repo set up for the different agents. For example, we use the agents.md standard. Other coding agents may use other ways of informing their agents how your repo is structured. Fantastic. Thank you for sharing. And here's one question I can actually help answer. This is more about our recording for the session. So yes, everybody, we will have this session recorded. It will be hosted on OpenAI Academy. A link will be sent to all of you who registered so you can play it back. So we will have this for all of you to recap as well too, or share with any of your colleagues. Great. Fantastic. Any other questions, Sean? Yeah, let's do maybe just a couple more over here. So somebody asked how to check the token limit and what you suggest on how they do that best. Is there a sort of feature within there where they can explore it? Any recommendations on that? Yeah. So I would think about your token limit in two ways. Number one, if you're on a plan that has a token limit, you can type /status, and you'll be able to see your overall consumption of Codex and monitor that way. Number two, the other way that people often think about token limits is in terms of their context window. Certain models have a 200,000 or 400,000 or 1 million token context window. Now, there may be a little indicator that shows you how kind of full that context window is. But as I talked about at the start, we have this automatic and intelligent context compaction, meaning we really hope that there's a future where you don't have to think so much about filling up your context. So if that question was more about your overall plan limits, the answer is /status. If the question's more about context window, I would highly recommend in some ways freeing yourself of the worry about the context window and let your sessions compact, because that does really well, and it performs very well. Awesome. That's great information. And if we have time, maybe just a couple more. So we had a question from Raul asking if there's a sort of group or project level co-work feature involved in Codex. Anything that's currently available that we can kind of speak to? Like a group or project level co-working feature? I think the idea is, yeah, for people to kind of co-work with one another, maybe using a similar Codex workspace. Yeah, that's a really cool idea. I would love to see the Codex app become a little bit more multiplayer. I think I've heard people toying around with that idea. In the meantime, what I would say is a lot of the configurations that you're going to create, your agents.md or any skills that you create, I would highly recommend sharing those amongst your team. You can start small. You can start by maybe checking them into your repositories or just sending them as zip files to each other in the case of skills. So maybe less actively working together like a Google Doc within Codex app, but more just collaborating about how you use Codex. Got it. That's a great best practice there. And so we had also one more, again, so this is also very timely as well. When will additional Codex modules or deeper follow-up modules be available? Pleased to say that we are just planning this together, and I think over the next week or two, we'll have some of these sessions. So definitely stay tuned. Ankur, anything else you want to share on that? Yeah. Actually, for that one, there will be a feedback form for this session. I would love to know specifically what would be helpful for you in a more advanced Codex session. Because as you can imagine, there are so many different paths that we could go down in teaching advanced Codex. I want to know what you want to hear. So when we send out that feedback form or we link it or however we're going to do that, please include in that what you want to see next. Fantastic. So we'll definitely hear that. Please share all your feedback. We have our welcome ears over here, and we'd love to cater these sessions to whatever's useful for all of you. And I think with that, Ankur, that's about all the questions that we had. Thank you so much for the time today. I hope you learned something, everybody. Thank you all.
