<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/jennifer-robertson-predictive-and-generative-ai-for-business -->

# Jennifer Robertson (Predictive and Generative AI for Business)

<!-- vimeo: 1111501058 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hello everyone. My name's Jennifer. Um, I was the lead TA for Pro Professor LeBlanc. Um, we are here to share some insights, um, on how of our recent course, uh, predictive and generative AI that ran at uc, Berkeley Hospital of Business, uh, this past spring of 2025. Well, Jennifer, you were far more than lead ta. You were really the, the co-instructor and, uh, instrumental in the design and implementation of this course. My name is Greg LeBlanc and I teach at, uh, Berkeley Haas, um, in a number of different areas. Um, I've been teaching in the area of data for, gosh, over 30 years. I used to teach the core stats course when I was at, at Wharton and, um, designed the data decisions intro core class for our MBA students, and then launched the first, um, data science class for our MBA students back in 20, uh, 15. And, um, but you know, the thing about this course is that it's more, it's about more than just data. I mean, it's, it reaches into every single discipline in the business curriculum. Yeah. So the course tried to do a couple different things. First of all, it meant we, we had sort of a basic introduction to, um, AI and how AI has evolved over, over time with a unique perspective on that, I think. And also about how, um, uh, AI strategy, right, is something that every company needs to have, right? And, and, uh, we use the term strategy of course, very, very broadly. And then the third part is the hands-on creation of agents and multi-agent systems, which, um, it, you know, combined both the, the theoretical and, and the practical. Yeah. So what we did was we split the course into two parts days. Mondays were were workshop days, and then Wednesdays we had some lectures that you just talked about. And then we had some guest speakers come in as well. Um, that's Right. And the, the guest speakers came in from consulting firms, right? 'cause they, this, they're dealing, they're at the mind face Yeah. Of, of this. And then also from the hyperscalers. So What do we do in the workshops? Um, essentially the workshops. So they ran for about, uh, two hours. We started with, okay, let's look at a basic automation, like a three step automation. The students had to build a three step automation that was like their first assignment. And then by the end of the class, they were building multi-agent systems, right? And they had a kind of end of class multi-agent assignment where they had to redesign or reimagine an existing business process that, you know, they, for a company they may have worked for or that they were going to work for, or, um, within uc, Berkeley, which was absolutely fascinating. But we essentially said, okay, the workshops we're gonna start with something simple and then we're gonna work our way up. Um, it was mostly group work except for a couple of assignments. So the workshops were really designed to, I think, give them partially time to understand the assignment, time to ask questions, and then time to kind of get organized in their group and understand what they were gonna do for that week. What's, what's kind of, um, funny about this is that while there are some professors who are banning the use of generative AI and LLMs in their classes, which is kinda ridiculous, uh, we, uh, of course made it mandatory. Well, Okay, but let's switch quick gears quickly. So how do we come up with this course? We, I think we came up with this course over dinner. You said, oh, I'm running a course on AI strategy. And I said, oh, I've just finished building a course a gen AI for engineers. And we said, okay, hold on a minute. Is there something to do here? Um, and so we said, okay, let's adapt. Yeah, that's it. We said, let's put the two together. Let's adapt it. Let's essentially build a gen, take AI for, um, mm-hmm. And it was, we hopped on, we hopped on a call for what, like 30, 40 minutes or something and we said, okay, let's, let's hash out the assignments of what they're gonna do in the workshops. And that's what we, we said, we said, okay, what's the skill progression said, okay. We sat down and said, okay, what, what do we want the students to start with? Like, where's the starting point and where's the ending point? And I think the interesting thing about the ending point where we said, okay, well let's look at jobs, right? Like what are they, what are jobs actually asking for? Yeah. And it was fascinating. I remember during the course, Nvidia posted a job product MBA intern for agent, and they literally had on there, must have experience with LLMs bonus if you have experience building agents. We said, okay, that's the goal, right? Like, we want these guys to go out and get hired. We want 'em to go and build the future of like all AI products out there, whether it's infrastructure or like just new products that are built on agent systems. And so we said, okay, this is what they have to have. And, you know, was looking at, okay, what's the kind of zone of proximal development that we can push each week to get these guys up to a point where, you know, they, they actually have kind of a portfolio when they finish. Yeah, I mean, a lot of people are talking about the role of the MBAs in the future and a lot of people are worried about getting jobs and people talk about the diamond shaped workforce and, and so forth. And, you know, if we at, uh, top business school aren't cranking out, um, graduates who can, you know, land with their feet on the ground and immediately start adding value, then then we're not doing our jobs. Agreed. And I think it, honestly, it really asks the question of like, how should an MBA change? And I think it should change quite significantly. Um, and I think this class with a good, I mean, students love the class overall. We'll get to that, we'll get to the impact and feedback in a bit. Um, I do wanna show some examples though. So, you know, we, again, we really push the students to use generative AI on every single assignment, like every single workshop that they had to turn in. And so I, we have a couple of examples we wanna show you of GPTs that were actually built by students. So I'm gonna share my screen quickly and we're gonna go try them out. Um, okay, here we go. So one of the assignments was, um, they had to build a, this was a single agent. They had to build a, a career support agent, a um, product management agent, or a, um, marketing, digital marketing agent. So this is one where it's the career support agent. Um, I said, okay, I wanna prepare for a consulting case interview, and here we go. It's asking me what kind of job role, what industry. So I'm gonna say, uh, product management, dream companies are, um, let's say my pro soft open AI obviously, um, Google and, uh, meta, they've got a lot going on. And let's say anthropic of course. Yeah. Oh, so I, well maybe should have chosen consulting firms. So we're still going after. Alright, so we say in, we gotta understand the interview format, uh, case interviews, practice case examples. Okay, great. This is pretty useful actually. Oh, I'm, we're gonna skip that. Yeah. Well, what's funny about a lot of the agents that they created were these were, um, mentor replace people that they interacted with on, on a daily, daily level, you know, mainly university related functions, student and job placement related functions. I mean, I think this is great. Like, you know, when I was doing my MBA, I would've loved to have a tool that was just like, instant, I can do this at any time. Like, I don't have to wait, I don't have to schedule a meeting with, um, the lovely folks at career management. I can just do it right here, right now. Right? And, you know, hit the ground running. Do I want a two week daily prep print? Yeah, that sounds awesome. Anyway, so this was one of them, um, their, um, the other one that was built was, uh, this was a different assignment. They had to build a, um, business strategy agent. Okay, so I'm gonna say what are three go-to market strategies for, uh, fitness startup in Southeast Asia? Students used a lot of tools, I think to build agents. There's really good exploratory. Some of them actually downloaded large language models and built their own self-hosted systems. Yeah, I mean, one of the things that we always debate in business school is how much technical expertise do MBAs need to have? And I think, you know, they come in all flavors and that's why, you know, understanding that there are no-code, low-code ways to do things. Um, and then there's ways that involve a little bit more technical expertise. And, you know, you can, you can, you can get the job done and, and it's, it's better than perfect. You guys can see it's given some ideas here. I can, you know, chat further, ask it to make some plans or documents for me. But again, these were produced by students. Um, they had a lot of fun building it and obviously like they didn't need deep expertise to go out and build A GBT. Um, and I think they learned a lot from it. Let's talk about impact. Um, student feedback. I think we had some students actually send us emails, didn't they directly after the class? I mean, I think they found it practically, they found it useful and they were able to put it to use immediately. I think you even also like actually really pushed the standards that we trained to, like within an MBA. Yeah. Right? If they have the tools make them more capable, okay, great. Let's increase the challenge of them. Um, anyway, so other interesting thing, we actually have one student who got hired at Google in AI policy department because of the class, which is fantastic. We had another one that got hired at ServiceNow as senior product manager, agent ai. You know, it was also the first time we're running it as well. Um, and certainly we learned a lot from it. Well, you know, one thing I learned is that, um, you know, students, they don't know a lot about kind of workflow architecture. They're not taught this, right? I think it's an extremely important thing as a manager to understand that you are managing right workflow, creating a process for the creation of value, which involves, you know, processing that data and a lot of students and practitioners knowledge. And if it's tacit knowledge, then you, you know, you can't do anything with it, right? You can't improve it. And so, uh, the course forced people to actually look at what it was that either they were doing or what someone else was doing and, and actually think carefully about the workflow and break it up into its component parts so that they could start to inject right. Automation and inject right, um, agentic AI into it, right? And so I think that even if they don't learn anything about, you know, any of these tools, uh, they come away with a better understanding that to be a manager, you have to understand workflow. You have to understand delegation, you have to understand instruction. You have to understand how to think very carefully and explicitly about what you're trying to do. I Think one of the other things that I learned is, um, to adjust the, um, like output. Like what we, we are actually asking for, um, as, um, you know, leads of the course, what we want the students to produce, that that document is something that we can then feed into an agent and that agent helps grade the document. We, you know, we did that. Yeah. But it wasn't perfect. It wasn't perfect and I think it can be improved, right? Um, so that, yeah, That's the holy grail for us instructors. You know, the students love getting feedback on, you know, what did they build, how did they build it, did it work? What could they do better? Et cetera. You know, where did they do well? All that sort of stuff. And that's possible. Um, so certainly we gotta, we could expand our grading agent a whole bunch. Anyway, thanks for joining us guys, of where you learned a lot. It was fun sharing. Um, and we wish you a great day. Reach out if you got questions.
