<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/kevin-cleary-technology-literacy-2025-09-08 -->

# Kevin Cleary (Technology Literacy)

<!-- vimeo: 1116800679 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1116800679)

<details>
<summary>자막: Kevin Cleary (Technology Literacy)</summary>

Hello, uh, thank you for your time today and watching my recording here. And thank you to the folks at OpenAI for organizing this OpenAI Academy. Uh, my name is Kevin Cleary. I am a clinical Associate professor with the State University of New York at Buffalo School of Management. Um, in addition to bringing 20 years of, uh, clo nearly 20 years of industry experience, uh, I've been a a, um, I teach full-time, uh, for the past three year, three years here at the University of Buffalo. And part of what I try to bring to the classroom is a very pragmatic applied, uh, experiential hands-on approach. I, my goal is for students to walk away from my classes with actual tangible skills they can put on their resumes, actual worthwhile material stories that they can celebrate with potential employers. Uh, because frankly, that's one of my key performance indicators at the end of the day, is, are students getting good jobs and are they happy? And so, uh, I also manage, uh, several programs, uh, here, uh, within my role, uh, namely the, uh, the, the Management Information Systems, our grad Level Management Information Systems program. Uh, the classes I teach range from Information Technology 1 0 1, 1 0 2 Level Information Technology and Information Systems classes, which, uh, have a strong basis in a lot of the tech technical literacy foundations that students will need as they progress through their programs. Moving on to mid-level system analysis and system design style classes. And then additionally, one of my former roles was that of a Chief Information Security officer. And so I teach multiple high level classes, uh, both strategic and technical, uh, in cyber security. And the truth is, and this is completely unscripted here, the truth is I build open AI into all of my classes. It wouldn't matter really what class I taught, generative AI has to have a component. Generative AI is so widespread and so far reaching and is so kind of societally impacting that any student that walks through an academic program is going to need to know how, what are the opportunities, the strengths, the weaknesses, the risks of generative ai as it applies to their skillset, as it applies to their industry, their field of study, what they want to do at the end of the day. Um, as an instructor, I've had to really challenge myself to kind of grow and reinvent my own skill sets to be able to teach on some of these topics or to consult on or to advise on some of these topics with industry. Uh, and so that's why I feel quite, quite strongly that regardless of a student's level, regardless of a student's program, they need to have exposure to this technology. They need to critically kind of analyze what does AI literacy, what does generative AI literacy mean for them? Uh, at least for my program and my students. The overriding message when it comes to literacy is that of symbiosis. Uh, generative AI should not be something that replaces the human. It should be something that we work with, something that we collaborate with. Uh, it should free up humans to be able to do more types of abstract thought. And so to that end, we explore several different areas. We look at inherently the types of biases, uh, uh, or hallucination, uh, that are the result of, uh, some of the ID idiosyncrasies of machine learning models. And we'll delve a little bit into that. Uh, we will look at ethical use. We will explore ethical use, both from an industry perspective, a societal perspective, but also an academic perspective. I am getting the students right away. I am having this conversation with freshmen where it might be their second week of their college career. And I'm having these conversations with students because they need to know ethically, they need to know best practices for their, uh, career as a student, how they can adopt, how they can leverage, how they can coexist with generative AI technologies. Uh, and so that ethical conversation in terms of coursework and output is important from a technical perspective. We, uh, you know, for information technology, information systems management, information systems students, we are looking at integration of business cases. We are looking at the risk factors. We are looking at, um, the different ways we can integrate generative AI tools, uh, uh, with existing systems. Uh, something I do across all my classes is with some, uh, specialized, highly scripted prompting. Uh, I can then have students develop their own bespoke unique case studies, which as an instructor would've taken me ages and would frankly be untenable for the number of students I have in the classroom. Now, with some, some, uh, you know, taking advantage of a little bit of the creativity, uh, that, that backgrounds some of these machine learning models, uh, I can have students with some controlled prompts develop a case study, develop an activity, develop an organizational profile with key elements in mind that are important for part of my pedagogy in terms of the, the, the learn, the, the learning outcomes that I'm trying to, to provide. Uh, one area I do this is, uh, especially in some of my earlier, uh, literacy classes or, uh, uh, information systems or system design classes, is I'm able to have students rather quickly vibe, code, uh, product prototypes. Uh, now in the past I would've had other ways to do this that frankly were suboptimal. But now I can have students with some, you know, some already preexisting experience, uh, rapidly prototype a product that then we can look at some of the other management style pieces, the, uh, uh, innovative, uh, management pieces that go into that in terms of product design and lifecycle management and, uh, project management and, uh, hype cycle management analysis of the industry gathering needs, uh, developing and refining that user interface, that user experience. And these were all things that yeah, we could have done before, but now we can have much more richer prototypes and prototypes that are much more agile as we teach some of these technology adjacent topics that ultimately will be the predictors of how successful will that technology implementation, how successful will the celebration of that innovation be at the end of the day? And, you know, we, and and I carry these, this ability to do key, uh, custom key studies then into some of my cybersecurity classes as well. So my higher level or my hands on cybersecurity classes, one of the big things, some of the big things we're looking at is, well, one, how is the adoption of generative AI changing the attack surface for organizations? What are now the new levels of exploitation that threat actors have available to them? Two organizations, uh, that are adopting generative AI tools. We look at, well, how are threat actors using generative AI themselves as an assistive technology or as a weapon? Uh, we then we look at, okay, well what are the impacts of an information security program? What are the differences? How do we have to tune our cybersecurity and our information security controls to counteract the risk that is now growing with these new capabilities that threat actors have? Part of that is, okay, well, how, as cybersecurity professionals, how can we then leverage generative AI tools and use this as a force multiplier? At the end of the day, for security professionals, I will, uh, have assignments and case studies that have, uh, my students take on the role of a threat actor. One of the key tenants I teach is think like an adversary. And so under that lens then I have students explore the ways that a threat actor could weaponize generative ai, either through simple naive prompts or through more nefarious means. Uh, again, talking about the ease with which we can now develop a bespoke custom case studies for students at scale with a few well structured or in some type, in sometime cases, a lot of well structured prompts. Uh, we can now have generative AI produce a custom bespoke case study or organizational security profile with a particular technical attack cross section for each student. And then I can have students simulate cyber attacks. I can have them do tabletop activities. I can have them do system audits of these kind of custom case studies. The tools like Chat, GPT have then enabled us to kind of, uh, create and, and add some, some, um, creativity into. And so in closing, uh, like I said, this, this isn't something that's, in my opinion, something that's optional for classes. Every instructor, every teacher has to think about how is this going to impact my particular area. Uh, jobs of the future are not just going to be AI focused. It will kind of become the expectation that you also need to know generative ai. It's almost like you also need to know Microsoft Office. You also need to know how to type, you know, you also need to have basic social networking or, uh, net uh, uh, you know, different types of advanced technical skills. The expectation is gonna be the generative AI is just one of those things. You're not just gonna have a job where all you do day in, day out is generative ai. Everybody needs to know generative AI at the end of the day and what some of the capabilities and risks and limitations, uh, and, and areas of growth are. Uh, and you know, in, in closing, an important thing for me is that students understand not only what the landscape is gonna be today, but that I teach students so that they know how to pivot and how to be dynamic after they leave college. Because in five years, our relationship from generative AI is going to be different than it is today. The capabilities are gonna be far different than they are today. And so as students walk away, uh, and move into their full-time roles and their careers in the next stages of their life, I want them to be in a spot where they can pivot, where they can adjust, and where they can be successful. Uh, I am coming up on time here, so thank you everybody for your time and watching this. Thank you again to OpenAI for this opportunity. Uh, I am available and I'm happy to talk to anybody that would like to collaborate, would like some information or some advice. Um, please reach out. Thank you very much, and have a great day.

</details>
