<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/luis-borunda-arch-4516-and-4524-architecture-v-thesis-inquiry-thesis-documentation-arch-5045-environmental-design-research-2964-and-4964-interdisciplinary-projects-2025-08-20 -->

# Luis Borunda (Architecture)

<!-- vimeo: 1111486842 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1111486842)

<details>
<summary>자막: Luis Borunda (Architecture)</summary>

I learned typing alongside my grandfather that, uh, on one side we had the typewriter and learning to touch of stroke and find the poster. And on the other side, a computer software called Mars typing. And there was this mix of analog and digital tools that made a lasting impression. But this also raises a different question, which is, the human bond is what makes learning most meaningful. And that bond I find, is irreplaceable with technology I grew up in, this is a city in Mexico that is characterized by stark inequalities in education, in space, in safety. And in a way, this has constructed a compass that guides my understanding of technology and now AI as a way of moving towards equity and responsible technology in a way that is relational, in a way that is impactful towards vulnerable communities. I teach undergraduate and graduate courses in design in our, in Virginia Tech and in our classroom. We create a intentionally an an interdisciplinary group. These problems that we face, we problems that society faces. Today, we try to see as something that is not resting on a discipline, but it requires a conversion understanding of science and learning, learning together. In peer mentoring, AI is giving us a place of conversation where our languages can combine and we can find stories that are meaningful, interdisciplinary. So we ask when using AI in education, how can education be made better? And then learning experience, uh, be better for students, maybe more aligned to their priorities, aligned to their needs, while preserving the bond that makes learning most meaningful. In the context of this question, we've built, uh, various instruments. Now, this change from tools to an instrument is quite important in our teaching of ai. And with ai, it is thinking about these platforms of learning these classrooms as an embedded intelligence in a space rather than maybe an anthropomorphized, uh, element that, uh, synthetically you engage with. It is more of a classroom. It is more of a, um, a space of serendipity and learning together and discovery where AI can be, uh, fine tuned and explored towards adjusting, uh, the complex problems that we try to face with its ability to, uh, create teachable moments and a learning path in a construction, a conceptual construction towards that specific goal. Tools to instruments is also a way of thinking about AI in which the more that you engage with, the better that you understand it, you play with it, you make it create the sound and story that is aligned with your expression. So in a way, this distinction is particularly important in the context, for example, of the three tools that I'd like to share with you today. One is, um, what we call the thesis and ler giving a given a, uh, a recommendation of a student when, when using this, these, this tool, uh, saying this is really helping me unravel my own ideas about my thesis and help me understand better what my thesis is about. Basically, we use, uh, custom GPT, um, tools so that have been trained with syllabus information, with all the information of five prior years of teaching research methods where we identify some of the main challenges that us usually students face when understanding academic writing, the construction of new science, uh, the foundation of a research plan, and try to trim it down into something that, uh, students can more easily understand the student and the, the platform. Um, and the group of students create a Socratic, um, dialogue where, um, the AI helps us construct clarity into the thought and also helps us a mentor into academic writing. On another example, the creative verse is an ongoing platform and collaboration towards creative story making. And so we try to have the idea of writing and creative writing as a sense of individual story making from storytelling where K 12 students can, uh, prompt and play with a beginner to advance level the self tuneable through conversations with, um, with a language model and with a platform, online platform, so that as students start to create their own characters in their own stories, they are being illustrated automatically and they have full control over a narrative pre and a construction of character and a construction of a storyline based on different styles. So this breaks down the problem of creative writing that usually comes later in the curriculum, maybe to start to introduce it a bit earlier on one hand and on the other, this is also giving us an opportunity to hear some stories that might have gone unheard. A third example is our efforts at Virginia Tech, uh, with a tremendous support from communities of individual vision impairment and a large group of faculty into, uh, creating, um, the understanding of the context and understanding of AI accessibility With Smart Guide, uh, we've created an app that takes a a photo of a space and takes a reading of a space, and also with, uh, introducing architectural space, thinking how can the architecture be better tuned to the, to the computer vision aspect? Can we design spaces better suited for individual vision impairment to navigate more confidently and have a, a more independent life? Uh, when we've tested this app with, um, individual vision impairment, uh, we found very meaningful examples of how AI really gives us an opportunity to think about challenges and problems in a completely different way. I'd like to share one example before sharing some of the impact of the other work that we've done. One very, uh, lasting comment was in one of the co-development groups where we, rather than using AI for design, we're using co-design with ai, uh, directly engaging the communities and the interdisciplinary classroom. We're taking photos, we are describing a space, there's a photo of a door, and at some point Lisa stands up and says, Hey, and says, is this door made out of class? The generative AI was creating a large language model and description that would say, and behind the door, it passed the door, there is an image of a corridor. She says, I would've never known that this door was made out of glass if it wasn't for the ai. And now with any other of the senses that I rely on, this really means about understanding AI as a way to bring a new meaning, come forth and adjust to the priorities and then needs of the people that it serves. Another example of some of the impact of our work has been a decent ler. We're starting to see that students that would have usually taken about a year to understand the process of research medicine, academic writing, particularly undergraduate thesis students are finding evermore easily, uh, constructed a path towards conference publications for their own ideas. Usually they have a clear thesis and hypothesis about their design. In my experience in my prior classes, more towards the end of the year where we're refining a document for publication with the use of ai, I'm seeing that students are, with the help of AI are being able to introduce this clarity a bit earlier and unravel more independently and deeper in understanding of rigor and scientific form. So students at the stage have enough time to start to embark on academic writing in the context of scientific conferences. So in a way, uh, we are discovering with this deployment that the future of AI in education is not about automation. It is about collaboration. In the end, AI isn't the whole story. When one renders with a generative ai, the vision of a building, particularly design that is we use a lot, we're having trends and details, maybe a cognitive understanding of the space that only after many months of refinement one would usually reach with traditional methods. But this image, in a way, some ir this image in a way is not the whole story. It's important for us to understand and we're increasingly discovering that in the end, AI isn't this final Image, but it is a way to get to discover what the most important part and most meaningful part of your story is. So helping us devise, uh, our priorities and our goals, and also breaking down the learning path, uh, and, um, and, and, uh, learning about the challenges ahead, uh, with, um, with a mentorship, whether it's, uh, create a story in your own voice, whether it is, uh, defining the clarity in your thesis and getting it ready for publication and learning about the form and scientific understanding of new, new knowledge. Um, we've learned that in an increasingly automated world, um, it is our responsibility in a way to, uh, construct the AI tools that really reflect the values that we care for. So in our work, we emphasize always the creation of collaborative design for ai. And this is an invitation also for understanding the classroom as a place where we discover this story together.

</details>
