<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/marcos-rojas-health-2025-08-20 -->

# Marcos Rojas (Health)

<!-- vimeo: 1111506651 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Simulation is a powerful tool for teaching clinical reasoning, but it is often costly and hard to scale. High fidelity simulations require significant resources that many institutions, especially in low resource settings, don't have, even virtual simulations have limitations. They're often designed in English tailored to specific health systems and difficult to adapt to local context. This means many students in medicine, nursing, pharmacy, dentistry, and other health professions never get enough opportunities to practice the complex reasoning they will need with real patients. At Stanford University, we began with a simple experiment. A custom GPT designed to simulate a conversation with a patient. You could ask the AI patient questions and it would respond with realistic, medically coherent answers. This is more proof of concept. Confirmed that gene, I could replicate the feel of a live patient encounter. It was exciting, but also limited instructors wanted more the ability to create cases quickly, adapt them to their own context, give students feedback, and even include visuals, pictures, x-rays, or even call the patient through phone. For example, we asked what if Gene AI could power the entire workflow of simulation-based teaching. That question led us to build clinical mine ai, a web-based platform where several functionalities are powered by GBT four and other gene AI models, as well as other AI techniques and models, case creation, for example. Here, instructors provide the details and learning goals, and AI helps refine the case adapted to cultural and system context and ensure plausibility in the simulation, GPT-4 powers real time medically realistic conversations with these AI patients. In the step of feedback, AI reviews the interaction transcript, highlighting strengths and areas for improvement based on the instructor's objectives and the rubrics they input to the system. And another example, patient image generation. In this step, AI creates non-identifiable visuals matching the case description. To enhance realism, we design the platform so instructors can follow simple steps to go from an idea to a ready to run simulation in minutes with no coding, no technical setup, and no need to juggle multiple tools. Under the hood. The platform makes multiple API calls to the most appropriate model for each function. For example, GPT-4 handles dialogue for the simulation. Other generative text model supports case creation and feedback, and we have another image generation model that produces the realistic picture for each AI simulated patient. This architecture with different models allows flexibility, scalability, and also the ability to continuously upgrade as better models become available. Here's what running assimilation looks like. When instructors log in into the platform, they have a menu with four options. The first option is my courses, so we need to make sure instructors are inside a course. After that, instructors can create AI simulated patients. So here they go into the second button of the menu where they have, uh, type of form that they just fill out with all the information of the patient. For example, the name, the chief complaint, the physical examination, whatever details belong to this specific AI simulated patient. After that, they can create rubrics if they want to provide feedback to the students. These rubrics are implemented on top of the answers of the students if they answer any open-ended question or if they, for example, interact with the patient, uh, talking or requesting physical examination or medical tests. So if the instructor wants any type of evaluation in this type of interactions or questions, they must provide a rubric. And finally, they combine everything in the last step in the menu. That is called clinical case activity. Here they select a patient and after they select that specific patient, they create a whole sequence of events as students are going to leave in this simulation. So for example, perhaps they want students to talk to the patient and after they talk to the patient, there is a question. And after adding this question, they have to request physical examination. And after physical examination, there is a final question that they could add. They can also add other multimedia files or anything else they want to provide to a sequence of events, and they can make it as long or as short as they want and as complex or difficult and as or simple as they want. After instructors create the whole simulation and all the steps they want students to follow, then students log into the platform in which they follow these specific steps created by the instructors and they receive feedback. If the instructors enable this feedback for that specific activity, each simulation just cost a few cents to run. There's no need for actors, equipment or simulation centers because clinical mine AI is multilingual and curriculum agnostic. It can be integrated into any health professions program anywhere in the world. Clinical mine AI is started as a small project at Stanford University, but the way we designed and used AI resonated with educators far beyond our campus. We began collaborating internationally. Today, 12 universities are part of the platform with more about to join. We've received valuable insights and feedback from around the world, which have helped us improve the platform and identify new areas for research. We piloted clinical mine AI at Stanford in one course. We also completed our first research project on the feasibility and acceptability of this platform involving 51 medical instructors across the us And now we have other research projects underway, studying the platform's impact on learning, evaluating AI powered feedback, and exploring also new features to further support instructors globally. The early results of our work are promising. For example, case creation time has been reduced from hours to minutes thanks to different gene AI tools that we've been adding into the platform that allow instructors to create cases in a way that is faster, in a way that is easier. For example, when they are filling out the form to create a clinical case, they can click, uh, generate the case. And with Gene, AI will power that feature that allows them to fill out quickly the whole form. So they have some examples that they just have to edit instead of writing everything from scratch. Also, we've seen how students report higher immersion and motivation compared to a static case basis. Uh, scenarios and formats, which are the most used format, uh, everywhere. And also institutions without much access to simulation centers. We're very happy to see how they are running reach interactive scenarios at scale. Clinical mind AI grows through the combined perspectives of educators, engineers, developers, researchers, professors, and all of our institutional collaborators worldwide. Each of them brings a unique lens designing cases, for example, refining the AI outputs and helping us integrate this tool into local curricula. This diversity, these different perspectives, these different ideas, this combination of personal motivations is what makes this project possible. This platform clinical mind AI enables instructors to drive educational innovation and ensures that all students, regardless of location or resources, can develop these essential clinical skills in a realistic adaptive environment. By combining all these cutting edge technology, ai and also putting that together with the creativity and the expertise of doctors, educators, engineers, professors, everybody who is helping us in this project all across the globe, I believe we are shaping a more equitable future for health professionals education.
