<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/mitchell-weiss-public-entrepreneurship-2025-08-21 -->

# Mitchell Weiss (Public Entrepreneurship)

<!-- vimeo: 1111499385 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

<!-- vid-ref:1111499385 -->
[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1111499385)


Greetings. I'm Professor Mitchell Weiss and I am at the Harvard Business School. And I'm absolutely thrilled to spend some time talking about teaching with AI in the context of my course, and especially in the context of one of the exercises that I built for it. I'm gonna share some slides to help us understand more about what I built and what I try to accomplish with it. I teach this exercise in a course called public entrepreneurship. I mainly study invention inside government and for it, the course is about extreme innovators inside government and the private gov tech companies that built for government. I've created three AI exercises for this course in part, and especially because I think it's very timely to be asking questions about how AI can or cannot be helpful inside governments. But these exercises are relevant. I have found well beyond, way beyond a course on public entrepreneurship. They've been used in all sorts of executive education programs and other contexts in which I've taught. The exercise I wanna highlight today is one I built called Finding Your Jagged Frontier. And it's based on a paper written, not by me, but by colleagues and counterparts, which I'll explain in public entrepreneurship though. We start this exercise with an invitation to the students to think about how it is they might use artificial intelligence tools in order to be more innovative and more productive in their work as public entrepreneurs. And I start by inviting 'em to think about one bucket of tasks that's key in the toolkit of a public entrepreneur prototyping. And, uh, one of those tasks, for example, designing an MVPA minimally viable program in order to test a new idea. And I'll start the session by often showing them, for example, one custom chat GPT that I built using, using this as an example of the government, uh, MVP. And in this case I'll say, Hey, look, what if we had an idea about a new program? It would be a program where restaurant owners could send in pictures of their dumpsters with holes in them, and then they could send in pictures where the dumpsters were patched and in exchange they might get a small tax rebate. And I explained to the students that because they made a custom chat, GPT, and I've automated a set of steps for this, this GPT that it'll go through those, like in each instance, picking categories for lots of learning spillover, learning quick to test that'll do a second cycle of leaner than that where it'll provide more information for even, uh, less spending of time and money. I ask 'em to pick one that they think San Garza, my favorite, CAO from the city of Boston would pick and then even make a quick prototype. And so I tell the students, this is just about one example of maybe one task where AI could be helpful. What if you thought about all the other buckets of tasks and all those tasks? Of course, the buckets could run up and down this page, the task could run along this page, but in each instance you might think of a specific task, whether it's designing surveys or govern getting ready for hackathons or actually pivoting what you've been giving feedback that an AI could potentially be helpful with. This leaves the students ready to think about all the possible ways AI could be helpful. But I do also invite a very serious amount of circumspection. We want, we want AI to help us to become, say, 10 x more productive at being public innovators in this context. But we have to wonder whether generative AI is truly helpful in that regard or it's not. And I tell them that I have a beginning hypothesis that I think in some tasks and not all, and I don't think this is a very brave hypothesis because of course this has been my experience using AI in all of ours. And also because this is backed up by the social science. And I tell them that our objective for this exercise is to find out which, which tasks, uh, could be helpful for us on. And which right now it cannot. And in doing so, I say we're gonna find, uh, the AI jagged frontier for government innovation. And I tell them quickly that jagged frontier is not a phrase that I made up, although I quite like it actually comes from paper by colleagues and counterparts. But this paper has a very interesting, I think an important set of findings, which included that you, when they tested this in a work context, that people who used AI on the things that AI was good at actually outperformed people with without ai. That makes sense, but that people who had AI and used AI and tax wasn't yet good at actually underperform, underperformed people without any AI at all. And the warning there is of course, yes, use AI and things that it's good at but don't use AI and things that it's not yet good at. And the tricky part here, the authors of this paper point out is it's not always intuitive. What the AI is gonna be good and not good at. This is where they come up with the name, the jagged frontier. The stuff inside the frontier is the things the ad can help us with. Well, today, the stuff outside the frontier is stuff I can't help us with yet. But the point is that it's not intuitive upfront whether the AI is gonna be good, precisely good or not good at helping us with this thing. And so the invitation to us is that we actually have to go and find that frontier in our work. And that's the point of this exercise in this context, although I'm gonna share with you other contexts, we try to find the jacket frontier for government innovation. And I say we're gonna do that in three buckets. First on problem understanding and second on ideation. And third on prototyping. And I tell the students, I'm gonna give you four minutes for each task after you come back from each task, I'm gonna as a room ask you two questions. What did you try and what did the AI seem good and not good at? Now I don't tell them about a third question I'm gonna ask them, which turns out to be very, very important. The first question was, what was the AI good at? And for Example, a student might say, well, it was good at finding potential root causes. And I'll board that under the inside the frontier column. They might say, you know what though, professor didn't seem to get my very specific context very well. And I might board that for the moment outside the frontier. But then I ask them this important question, I say, how would you have made it work better? And over the course of a session, the students will come up with great suggestions for how to make these tools work better for them, for example, by augmenting the tools with their own data or a whole host of other prompting techniques. And otherwise, we will, by the end of this exercise, of course, fill out this entire board with ways in which AI is helpful on all these three categories and places to be a little bit careful. And as I said, ways of making the tools work better for us. And now tell them why don't we spend the last part of our session focusing on the ways to make the tools work better for us? And I'll make sure to concretize a handful of strategies including, yes, better prompting, giving the tools, standards or rubrics, layering the tools together. So that one might be doing text, one might be doing data providing, as I said, a knowledge base. I might even show them the easier ways to provide extra knowledge, like just adding them via the chat bot or adding them via custom GBT or using something like open eyes playground in, in your, in the assistance function to add and augment data there. I might show them some of at the time newer things like using connectors in order to give your tools access to other data. And then I'll go on and make sure they're aware of some other techniques for making these tools work better for them, like integrating them, like engaging with them, um, in other ways than just a chat bot, especially using their human judgment. A lot of human quality assurance. And I'll tell them at the end that perhaps the most important thing is that you practice with these tools. And I'll share for them what I call AI's competency trap, which I'm adapting from, of course a very famous competency trap from from March and Levitt. And the idea that yes, when they start using ai, it may feel inferior to the whole processes, organizations, individuals may even in that moment wanna give up on it. But in fact, the thing to do is not to give up on it when you're not yet up on the new learning curve, but actually to proceed along the new learning curve and ultimately and hopefully be superior to the old processes you are using. That's the jagged frontier exercise from my students. And I run it, as I mentioned in the context of government innovation, but I've run it in so many other contexts as well. I've run it for accountants and looked at three buckets of their work. I've run it for marketers and looked at three buckets of their work for the leaders of professional service firms and the buckets of their work, like strategy and growth and building managing teams and advising for event venture investors on their work like deals, sourcing and diligence, deal execution, portfolio company management for social sector leaders. I've run it actually time and time again for teachers to think about how we as teachers might use it in our work. And I guess I invite you here at the end to think about the field you teach in the classes you teach. Three buckets of workflow. You might invite students to go and find their own jacket. Frontier, thank you very much.
