<!-- source: https://academy.openai.com/public/videos/yuen-ben-siu-marketing-2025-08-19 -->

# Yuen Ben Siu (Marketing)

<!-- vimeo: 1111386255 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1111386255)

<details>
<summary>자막: Yuen Ben Siu (Marketing)</summary>

Hi, my name is Dr. Ben Sue, and I am a lecture in marketing here at the University of Plymouth Business School. Today, I just wanted to go through some of the ways that I'm using Jet GBT to enhance the student experience, whether that's inside or outside of the classroom. So we'll start with this one, which is one I used earlier in the semester, which was part of a module, which requires students to write literature reviews. Now, one of the things that we wanted to particularly focus on was what hindered students' performance in writing literature reviews. Now, one of the key things that we found was that some students started off with an idea they thought they liked, and then as they read through it, they identified that they were no longer interested in it, and that impacted their ability to understand it. So what we then found that if they didn't have a good understanding of it, they then went through this process of wondering if they, whether they chose the right topic. So that may some of the time they spent reading kind of wasted, and then they would have to go back to the drawing board and brainstorm new ideas. So what we looked at was how do we use chat GPT to prevent this from happening? How can they brainstorm lots of ideas before advancing any further? So we looked at a particular prompt that they could use as part of the session, uh, which is the one that you can see here. Now, here we are teaching students how to use prompts, but also how to craft their own ones. And we teach how to craft prompts by showing them good examples of prompts that we use. So here is an example of one of those. So the prompt takes on the role of a academic assistant. The students then fill in the inputs part, so they can put in their chosen topic, let's say that's global marketing. They can then put in the context that they want to explore. So this could be soft drinks, and then they can also include any existing knowledge that they already have about that topic. Now, once this information is completed here, it's automatically added to the placeholders that you see in the remainder of the, uh, prompt. So what we did is we ran this as an activity in the classroom, and they got examples like the one that you see here. So they get a definition of what the subject is. So in this case it is global marketing. They then get subtopics that exist within that area. So not only do they understand what the topic generally is about, they could find lines of investigation that they might be interested in to supplement that. They're also then given some further insights into each one of those subtopics, which allows the students to better understand them. Now, the great thing at this point is that they don't like these subtopics or they want to explore one of these further. They can continue that chat dialogue with chat GPT to get a better understanding of those. Another benefit of doing this is that it allows students to brainstorm or look at multiple different ideas before choosing one. So it gives them the ability to make an informed choice about that particular topic area. Now this is something that wasn't possible before we had, uh, chat GPT. So this really gives students the best opportunity to start on the best footing at finding that particular topic. Now, other things that we do here at the university mainly evolve around custom gpt, whether this is integrated into the classroom experience itself, developing material before or helping students understand the topic after they have left the classroom. So we have, uh, a number of different custom gpt here as an example. So to give you the context, this, these gpt are made to fit within a marketing research module. Now, one of those is called name that design. So we teach the students all the different type of research designs. Now, this custom GPT facilitates their learning by giving them an opportunity to learn more about it. So if they were unable to attend the session or after the session, they were unsure about certain topics, they can use chat GPT as a learning partner in order to better understand those topics. Now, the great thing is, is that this GPT has the lecture that we delivered in it. So it's within the context of the client that we use and is also within the context of the information that we teach here. The other thing it has is a specific activity, which is, um, an opportunity for them to apply that knowledge. So what happens when you put in that start is that it gives them a idea of what to do as part of that activity. They're then given a series of scenarios and they then apply or select which one of the research designs they should use. Again, this tests their knowledge and their application to a particular, uh, scenario. Now, this is beneficial because in their assignment they have to select a research design which suits the client's need. So this forms a part of the practice that they will then utilize before they complete their assignments. Now, as part of this, it gives them instantaneous feedback so they can see if they chose the incorrect answer, why it was incorrect, if it was correct, uh, why it was correct. And then it moves through the scenarios. Also, as part of this market research module, they had to pitch. So the insights were going to be used as part of pitching a new product. So we have this, which is what we provided to the students, um, as well. So once it's prompted to start, it gives them an overview of what, um, needs to happen as part of the GPT, and then they can practice pitching to the GPT. So they can either do this as a recording, um, or they can type what they would say. Now, as part of developing this custom GPT, we have clients that pass the module. We ran a very short questionnaire through chat GPT to understand their personality and the type of questions that they will ask. And we built these into the custom GPT as well. So it simulates the experience as much as possible. So we have a range of different, uh, gpt that we use as part of the classroom, but also we use GPT to help students with parts of the course, but also helps us as lecturers, uh, reduce the amount of admin and simple, uh, utilitarian type questions that get asked. So, for example, if someone's interested in you, uh, what the are extenuating processes were, this can be found in our handbook. It can be found online, but by, but by providing a chat bot, it saves us time reiterating information that can be found online, but it also gives an interactive element. This custom GPT includes the key documentation about all of our policies and procedures, so it knows to draw from that information only, and it gives the students insight into those particular areas, and hopefully it will answer the students' questions. It also tell them where to find the information. They can also ask further information as well. Now, this has been particularly useful for in, um, saving our times that we can focus on more of the learning experiences, which the students really like. Uh, the final GPT that we've used as part of the modules is something which we call, well, the lecturer extension. So what we can do here is that we can put information about our lectures and then it can generate, uh, additional content that can be populated on our learning acceler. So for example, in this one, it can tell me, uh, this gives an example of what the GPT is designed to do. So for any one of these, so all we would need to do in this case is, is if we drag and drop in a document. So in this case, this would've been a PDF of a lecture, and then I requested a lecture description. So behind here in the custom instructions are things that I would read that I want for each one of these. So just by adding a document and adding this, we have the short concise description, the main bullet points from the lecture and a conclusion. So this saves time in populating our dle, um, because it takes very little time, uh, to generate these particular summaries. Now, this is just an example of some of the things that we've been doing as part of the courses and the things that I've been trying with the, uh, students. Uh, so it really is designed to help students have a better experience, enhance their understanding of topics, and then for us as lecturers, save some time on some of the administrative tasks. And what we've seen this year is a students are more engaged in the classrooms. So when we're asking 'em to do chat GBT based activities, more people take part in those than if you're doing a classroom based discussion. And actually when we see, we use these chat GBT custom GTS as part of an activity, they're more engaged in group discussions as well. So we're seeing better satisfaction and better engagement with the topics, but also as an academic, looking at the administrative tasks that I have to do, the use of these custom GPTs has also saved me a large amount of time. So I'm hoping that you found some of these examples useful and that these are things that you might, uh, take on as, um, as well.

</details>
