<!-- source: https://developers.openai.com/api/reference/cli/resources/beta/subresources/threads/subresources/messages/methods/create/ -->

[Skip to content](#_top)

[API Reference](/api/reference/cli)

[Beta](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta)

[Threads](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta/subresources/threads)

[Messages](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta/subresources/threads/subresources/messages)

Copy Markdown

Open in **Claude**

Open in **ChatGPT**

Open in **Cursor**

---

**Copy Markdown**

**View as Markdown**

# Create message

Deprecated: The Assistants API is deprecated in favor of the Responses API

$ openai beta:threads:messages create

POST/threads/{thread\_id}/messages

Create a message.

##### ParametersExpand Collapse

--thread-id: string

The ID of the [thread](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/threads) to create a message for.

--content: string or array of [MessageContentPartParam](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta#(resource)%20beta.threads.messages%20%3E%20(model)%20message_content_part_param%20%3E%20(schema))

The text contents of the message.

--role: "user" or "assistant"

The role of the entity that is creating the message. Allowed values include:

* `user`: Indicates the message is sent by an actual user and should be used in most cases to represent user-generated messages.
* `assistant`: Indicates the message is generated by the assistant. Use this value to insert messages from the assistant into the conversation.

--attachment: optional array of object { file\_id, tools }

A list of files attached to the message, and the tools they should be added to.

--metadata: optional map[string]

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.

Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.

##### ReturnsExpand Collapse

message: object { id, assistant\_id, attachments, 11 more }

Represents a message within a [thread](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/threads).

id: string

The identifier, which can be referenced in API endpoints.

assistant\_id: string

If applicable, the ID of the [assistant](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/assistants) that authored this message.

attachments: array of object { file\_id, tools }

A list of files attached to the message, and the tools they were added to.

file\_id: optional string

The ID of the file to attach to the message.

tools: optional array of [CodeInterpreterTool](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta#(resource)%20beta.assistants%20%3E%20(model)%20code_interpreter_tool%20%3E%20(schema)) { type }  or object { type }

The tools to add this file to.

code\_interpreter\_tool: object { type }

type: "code\_interpreter"

The type of tool being defined: `code_interpreter`

AssistantToolsFileSearchTypeOnly: object { type }

completed\_at: number

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the message was completed.

content: array of [MessageContent](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta#(resource)%20beta.threads.messages%20%3E%20(model)%20message_content%20%3E%20(schema))

The content of the message in array of text and/or images.

image\_file\_content\_block: object { image\_file, type }

References an image [File](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files) in the content of a message.

image\_file: object { file\_id, detail }

file\_id: string

The [File](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files) ID of the image in the message content. Set `purpose="vision"` when uploading the File if you need to later display the file content.

detail: optional "auto" or "low" or "high"

Specifies the detail level of the image if specified by the user. `low` uses fewer tokens, you can opt in to high resolution using `high`.

"auto"

"low"

"high"

type: "image\_file"

Always `image_file`.

image\_url\_content\_block: object { image\_url, type }

References an image URL in the content of a message.

image\_url: object { url, detail }

url: string

The external URL of the image, must be a supported image types: jpeg, jpg, png, gif, webp.

detail: optional "auto" or "low" or "high"

Specifies the detail level of the image. `low` uses fewer tokens, you can opt in to high resolution using `high`. Default value is `auto`

"auto"

"low"

"high"

type: "image\_url"

The type of the content part.

text\_content\_block: object { text, type }

The text content that is part of a message.

text: object { annotations, value }

annotations: array of [Annotation](/api/reference/cli/resources/beta#(resource)%20beta.threads.messages%20%3E%20(model)%20annotation%20%3E%20(schema))

file\_citation\_annotation: object { end\_index, file\_citation, start\_index, 2 more }

A citation within the message that points to a specific quote from a specific File associated with the assistant or the message. Generated when the assistant uses the “file\_search” tool to search files.

end\_index: number

file\_citation: object { file\_id }

file\_id: string

The ID of the specific File the citation is from.

start\_index: number

text: string

The text in the message content that needs to be replaced.

type: "file\_citation"

Always `file_citation`.

file\_path\_annotation: object { end\_index, file\_path, start\_index, 2 more }

A URL for the file that’s generated when the assistant used the `code_interpreter` tool to generate a file.

end\_index: number

file\_path: object { file\_id }

file\_id: string

The ID of the file that was generated.

start\_index: number

text: string

The text in the message content that needs to be replaced.

type: "file\_path"

Always `file_path`.

value: string

The data that makes up the text.

type: "text"

Always `text`.

refusal\_content\_block: object { refusal, type }

The refusal content generated by the assistant.

refusal: string

type: "refusal"

Always `refusal`.

created\_at: number

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the message was created.

incomplete\_at: number

The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when the message was marked as incomplete.

incomplete\_details: object { reason }

On an incomplete message, details about why the message is incomplete.

reason: "content\_filter" or "max\_tokens" or "run\_cancelled" or 2 more

The reason the message is incomplete.

"content\_filter"

"max\_tokens"

"run\_cancelled"

"run\_expired"

"run\_failed"

metadata: map[string]

Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.

Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.

object: "thread.message"

The object type, which is always `thread.message`.

role: "user" or "assistant"

The entity that produced the message. One of `user` or `assistant`.

"user"

"assistant"

run\_id: string

The ID of the [run](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/runs) associated with the creation of this message. Value is `null` when messages are created manually using the create message or create thread endpoints.

status: "in\_progress" or "incomplete" or "completed"

The status of the message, which can be either `in_progress`, `incomplete`, or `completed`.

"in\_progress"

"incomplete"

"completed"

thread\_id: string

The [thread](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/threads) ID that this message belongs to.

### Create message

CLI Tool

HTTPHTTP

HTTPHTTP

TypeScriptTypeScript

PythonPython

JavaJava

GoGo

RubyRuby

CLI ToolCLI Tool

openai beta:threads:messages create \
  --api-key 'My API Key' \
  --thread-id thread_id \
  --content string \
  --role user

  "id": "msg_abc123",
  "object": "thread.message",
  "created_at": 1713226573,
  "assistant_id": null,
  "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
  "run_id": null,
  "role": "user",
  "content": [
      "type": "text",
      "text": {
        "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
        "annotations": []
  ],
  "attachments": [],
  "metadata": {}

##### Returns Examples

  "id": "msg_abc123",
  "object": "thread.message",
  "created_at": 1713226573,
  "assistant_id": null,
  "thread_id": "thread_abc123",
  "run_id": null,
  "role": "user",
  "content": [
      "type": "text",
      "text": {
        "value": "How does AI work? Explain it in simple terms.",
        "annotations": []
  ],
  "attachments": [],
  "metadata": {}
