<!-- source: https://developers.openai.com/api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings/ -->

[Skip to content](#_top)

[API Reference](/api/reference/typescript)

Copy Markdown

Open in **Claude**

Open in **ChatGPT**

Open in **Cursor**

---

**Copy Markdown**

**View as Markdown**

# Embeddings

Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.

##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings/methods/create)

client.embeddings.create(EmbeddingCreateParams { input, model, dimensions, 2 more } body, RequestOptionsoptions?): [CreateEmbeddingResponse](/api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20create_embedding_response%20%3E%20(schema)) { data, model, object, usage }

POST/embeddings

##### ModelsExpand Collapse

CreateEmbeddingResponse { data, model, object, usage }

data: Array<[Embedding](/api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding%20%3E%20(schema)) { embedding, index, object } >

The list of embeddings generated by the model.

embedding: Array<number>

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

index: number

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

object: "embedding"

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

model: string

The name of the model used to generate the embedding.

object: "list"

The object type, which is always “list”.

usage: Usage { prompt\_tokens, total\_tokens }

The usage information for the request.

prompt\_tokens: number

The number of tokens used by the prompt.

total\_tokens: number

The total number of tokens used by the request.

Embedding { embedding, index, object }

Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.

embedding: Array<number>

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

index: number

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

object: "embedding"

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

EmbeddingModel = "text-embedding-ada-002" | "text-embedding-3-small" | "text-embedding-3-large"

One of the following:

"text-embedding-ada-002"

"text-embedding-3-small"

"text-embedding-3-large"
