# AI Techniques (Foundations): Responses API Tools & Features

<!-- vimeo: 1105245596 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hello everyone, this is Shehar Qra. I'm a partner solution architect at OpenAI and on May 21st you may have noticed that we shipped a bunch of new tools and features within responsive API and in today's deployed and webinar we are going to show exactly some of those key features, some of those toolings that have been released and we'll dive right into it. Okay, so we have a packed agenda today. We are going to cover a brief recap of responses, API, a little bit about tools and technologies like background mode, reasoning summary, encrypted reasoning mode and model context, protocol image and code interpreter, some of the file search improvements that have been done over the past. We will walk through a quick demo of some of these things and we will end up with some of the best practices. Now let's talk a little bit about responses. API just, this is just a brief recap. So as you know, the responses API is one of the fastest ways to build complex workflows within your application by integrating different tools and knowledge in a few lines of code. It is very lightweight compared to assistance API. It allows to use with some of the predefined tools that we had defined earlier, like web search, retrievals and qa. And now we have some additional tooling that we will talk about in just a bit. It is also a state full protocol. So we have easy memory and state management as an opt-in capability within responses. API now what's new in the responses API. So we have shipped six new tools and features plus an update to file search within responses API. These new tools enable you to build agents that are even more powerful, more useful and more reliable. Being able to pull context from any remote model context protocol server such as Shopify, Twilio, CloudFlare, and a lot more with just a few lines of code and being able to call the image generation tool through a simple and single response API call now. That's something that we have recently updated, recently released, so I, we would love for you to experiment with it to try it out. There are also three new features we are introducing to improve reliability, visibility and privacy when building applications. As you can see, these are background mode reasoning summaries, encrypted reasoning items, and a lot more to talk about as we'll walk deeper into it. Okay, why does it matter? One richer context for the agents, so users and developers, they can now provide more context to these models and continue building more powerful agents that can help deliver more accurate responses. More helpful responses. There are these tooling capabilities within the chain of thought now of O three and O four mini where you can call multiple tools while reasoning increases the models, uh, tool calling performance on industry standard benchmarks and it can help you reduce the overall cost overall performance latency for the developers by reusing those reasoning items from those previous turns of the conversation with background mode and automated reasoning summaries and end-to-end encryption, we have enhanced system reliability, giving the teams clear visibility and keeping user data private. Now who are the, who are the intended folks that would essentially make use of this? We have all the agent builders or the developers from all the customer segments who are engaged in building different kind of agent applications for different industry vertical, be it FinTech, be it in healthcare, automotive manufacturing, you name it. Then think about teams who are migrating towards responses, API who have very much engaged with chat completions but they want to leverage some of the powerful tooling capabilities, the features and memory management ability within responses API and also applicable to zeria organizations, which which gives the opportunity to reintroduce the responses API to zero data retention customers now that we offer encrypted reasoning items. If you do not understand that right now, don't worry at all. We will be covering this in much more detail. Alright, so just for context, right, in March, 2025 we had released responses, API with built-in tools like web search, basic file search and computer use along with agents SDK during the same month we also provided O three and O four mini function support, essentially providing that function tool call which is supported within the chain of thought but not the hosted tools essentially April, 2025. We had also released imagen but not that was not yet available in the responses API as a standalone API. It was released back at the time, but not in the responses API right now in May, 2025, just earlier this month, we had new tools and new features. So in the responses API now we have support for orgs requiring ZDR by using enhanced chain of thought rounding, right? So a lot of new tools and features that have released. Now let's dive into some of these tooling. Yeah, so we now support tool calling to remote MCP servers from the responses API as a refresher MCP is an open protocol which was introduced by anthropic that standardizes how applications provide context to the lms. And now with just a few lines of code, you can connect our models to external tools like Shopify, Twilio, CloudFlare, and a lot more available on the platform. And now our models can also get real-time information from these websites and inject that directly into its reasoning process without needing to host these servers locally. Now we expect this ecosystem of MCP servers to grow rapidly in the next coming months and for you to leverage some of these tooling. We have also released this cookbook that I have linked here for you to experiment with and take a look at our MCP tool guide. Now here's a quick example of how this works with Shopify's remote MCP server. You can call their MCP server using the responses API with a simple prompt like let's say add blemish toner pads to my card and the model in this case GP 4.1 can take the respective action on your behalf to add the item you requested to a Shopify cart and send you a link to the checkout as you can see on the right hand side. Alright, let's take a look at this in action. Now here we have GPD 4.1 mini that we have selected within the platform and I'm connecting to the Stripe MCP server as one of the tools that we want to invoke using responses API. Now once we provide the AU token and then we can provide more granular tooling access for, for the responses API to leverage within the Stripe tool call. So with MCP you can require like what, what kind of tooling requires more granular approval, what does not require approval and then you can configure all of that and add it to your responses. API tool calling feature. Once you have done that, you can ask a particular question, a particular query which can invoke responses API and then that calls this MCP tool. Like in this case we asked can you make me a payment link for 20 bucks? And then eventually we are calling that tool to create that payment link and then can ask like follow up questions once we have provided our approval to list the products, create the price and create that payment link as you can see, instantly created that information and as as simple as that, you are able to create your updates with integration with the responses API integrated with MCP tool code. Alright, now talking about image gen, we launched Image Generation as a tool in responses and you can now generate images directly within the API. There's no need to use a separate images API for that regard. And we are also adding two new features to image generation. One is you can have streaming while the image is being generated and you also have multi turn editing for granular more real time edits on those images. Now let's take a look at how these new features work. Alright, now with a simple tool call, we are invoking responses API to add strawberries and syrup on top of the image that we have and modify that image. We had added a particular system prompt to create this in the first place and as simple as that, we were able to create a 3D model object with the enhanced addition. Alright, now this brings us to the third tool that we added to responses which is code interpreter. This is also available in the assistance API as of now. This tool is useful for data analysis and solving complex math and coding problems and as we showed in the humanities last exam eval O three and O four mini performed with much higher accuracy when able to call tools like code interpreter or Python for that within their chain of chain of thought. Now, uh, eval on the right was published when we had launched O three and oh four mini and I encourage you to take a look at that on our website. So as you get more granular information on the HLE and the final tool that we released was file search. Now this tool was already available in responses but now it lets you search up to two vector stores instead of just one and filter search results based on attributes that are arrays or list rather than just single values. So it gives you more precise control over what the API retrieves and what's particularly exciting about this release is that O three and O four mini can call these tools within their chain of thought. We announced the ability for these models to reason while calling tools in April. It means that our models can pull relevant information from other sources while its reasoning producing richer and more accurate responses can take place. So these models also preserve reasoning tokens across the requests and tool calls, thereby improving the model intelligence and reducing the cost and latency for you overall. And finally, as I showed in the humanities last exam eval on the previous slide O three and oh four mini, they perform with much higher accuracy when it's able to call tools with their chain of thought. Now there are also three new features within the responses API that we released as part of the latest shipment, which is number one the background mode as seen in genetic products like the ones you would've experimented with such as Codex Deep research operator reasoning models can actually take several minutes to solve these complex problems. So now you can use background mode to build similar experiences on models like O three without worrying about timeouts or other connectivity issues. So background mode kicks off these tasks in an asynchronous fashion and you can either pull these objects to check for completion or what you can do is you can start streaming those events whenever your application needs to catch up on the latest state. Now talking about reasoning summaries similar to what you see in charge GBT responses, API can now generate summaries of models, chain of thought. This makes it easier for you to debug, audit and build better end user experiences and these are available at no extra cost. So essentially developers can now have access to concise natural language summaries of the models internal chain of thought and customers which are who are eligible for zero data retention can now reuse their reasoning items across different API requests without any reasoning items being stored in the open AI servers. So for models like O 3 0 4 mini reasoning items between the function calls, uh, ends up boosting the intelligence, reducing the token usage and increases the cash hit risk rates so that results in lower cost and overall latency. So that's where you will see and encrypted reasoning items really shined. Now we covered a whole lot right and we are gonna go into a demo real soon. So just a recap of what's available within G PT four oh series and 4.1 mini. You can see uh, that uh, within chat completions we only had function uh, calling available. Now with the responses we have function or tool calling, uh, file search, web search model context protocol image and and code interpreter. All of these are supported in the GPT-4 oh and 4.1 series. When we talk about O one and O three mini, which were our previous or prior reasoning models, uh, the chat completions remains the same. While responses now has supported functions file search MCP code interpreter currently web search and image are not supported except in O three which is uh, which supports imagen at the moment. Then with O three and O four mini, which are the new reasoning models, we support uh, almost similar like function file, search model context, protocol image generation within O three only at the moment and code interpreter of course this can change very soon so please uh, keep yourself updated on the latest information that we will release and we will absolutely pass that information over to you guys. And what's not supported at the moment is web search chat completions remains the same now but with new reasoning models we are able to preserve the chain of thought between the turns in the responses and this is very critical. So moving to responses and passing the reasoning items to subsequent requests will eventually help in boost the performance. Now I wanted to show the slide to give you an overview uh, and make it easy for you to understand like what's available as of today within G PT 4 0 4 0.1 series as opposed to the reasoning models. And I hope this gives you like a good context of what's available at the moment within the tools that are currently available as part of responses like the code interpreter model, context protocol, web search function, Calling file search, et cetera. And of course you can leverage this for your personal use when you are trying to invoke some of these models and then make the most of it. Alright, now let's jump into the demo. So here I have a bunch of notebooks in which we are going to run our responses API with these new set of tools and features. Now let's start with MCP tool integration and this example will show you how to use MCP tool and do some attribute filtering in the responses API. Now in this case, after importing a bunch of libraries, what we are doing here is I have set up my local MCP server and then have the server URL as the local host, 87 87. And in this case what I'm doing is I'm setting the required approval attribute to never, in which case it allows the model to automatically run without requiring that human intervention or that approval ex explicitly that is needed. And I can set the tool choice to either auto or even required, but we'll set it up to auto to let the model decide whether it needs to use any of its tooling or not. Now let's say I'm asking this question, what transport protocols are supported in the latest in this version of the MCP spec right now if you look at the output of this, right, so in this output you have the response id, I can always refer back to the response id as you know it's a straightforward protocol so you can always refer back to that I'm using GBD 4.1 model. And then in the M output you'll see like the MCP list tools parameter and then within that you'll see like the MCP list ID and then the MCP tools list in which you'll be able to see like the overall input schema and all the MCP tools that are provided as part of this, right? So you can get a list of documentation topics for the GitHub repository, you can read wiki contents. So a bunch of these are available through this protocol, right? And then you are able to easily access them by parsing it within the responses API. And in this MCP call you can see like this is the MCP call id, you have the arguments in this case, which with the question in place, which is what transport protocols are supported in this latest version, the name is asking a particular question the server label and then eventually you get this output text which is provided as part of the output of the responses. API in a similar way, let's say you want to filter certain tools because a lot of MCP servers have a dozen of tools and exposing all of those can lead to like more latency, higher cost. So if you're interested in let's say a bunch of those tools, a subset of them that an MCP server exposes, then what you can do is you can use the allow tool parameter and then parse in within the allow tool parameter certain tooling functionality to only import those tools that are required for answering my question, right? So in this case I am parsing through the responses API this allow tools parameter and then we are asking a similar kind of question over here, what transport protocols does it support? And then we get this respective answer in a similar way I can invoke some other tools as well either Deep Wiki or we can use like Stripe MCP server tool with the bearer token that is parsed as part of the header in order to invoke the Stripe MCP server tool. Now as I want to select maybe one of the tooling or just check like what all tooling and features are available within this MCP tool, we can just print like the entire response output and then here we can get like all the MCP list of tooling that I showed you. Now with Stripe, as you can see just for contextual visualization you can see like we have a bunch of these during available like search documentation, right? And then eventually you have the description for that where you can search the Stripe documentation for the given question and the language it can take into particular arguments, the question and the programming language to search for in the documentation. In a similar way you can have access to other tools like get Stripe account info, create customer list customers. So a bunch of these functionalities are available giving you access to like the entire portfolio of some of the tooling features which are available by just invoking them within the responses API, right? And then eventually you can also set up that tool filtering parameter to set what are the allowed number of tools to reduce that overall cost and latency. So now this quickly covers like the MCP tooling part. I know there's a lot of like tooling available from Stripe like upstate, uh uh update subscription list coupons and all of the create coupon and all of these other things that are available which you can look at your own own time. Cool. Now let's move on to the next one which is running the background mode. Now as you recall in the background mode we covered that some of the reasoning models can take quite a lot of time to solve some complex problems. Now developers, the users can use the background mode to build similar experiences on models like GBT 4.1 or four mini or three without worrying about any kind of like timeout or connectivity issues. Like in this scenario, what we are doing, the only change you will see is we have added this background parameter. If I change this, like if I remove this background parameter, then it will run and take its own suite time and eventually we won't be able to move on to the next steps running asynchronously. Now what we will do is if we set this up we can see like as as I run this and as you can see the input question is like right, a very long novel about OTs in space. I'm a fan of OTs, uh, see OTs specifically. But basically what's happening is you are running this particular piece of code and then eventually what we will see is this will run instantly because this is going to run in background mode asynchronously while we are able to accomplish other tasks in parallel. So as I run this, usually as you can imagine this would've taken like you know, at least 20, 30 seconds because we are the input query is very uh, very comprehensive in nature in a way that the user response needs to be very descriptive, right? But now as you can see, it instantly ran and I can just quickly check for the status of this particular response. And as you can see, it's still queued in the system. That means that the system is running in the background. And if I want to take a look at the overall response, let's run this here, you can see we have the response ID and this kind of shows that you know, the output is still running, the reasoning effort was set to be medium and then eventually you still have the response status as queued in this place to showcase that eventually the model is going to run and display the output. We can always come back and take a look at the output, but right now what it's showing is we are able to run this end to end and then continue with other tasks in parallel while background mode is in play. Now let's say you want to cancel any kind of like background response, right? So here I added a similar kind of input query which is like write a very, okay, it's asking me to remove very, very sure. So write a very long story about Harry Potter on the planet Mars, right? And then eventually I've already run this so you can see what's happening is again this query is running like in the previous cell and we can always print the response id but what what I can do now is I can cancel the response so I can simply pass in that particular straightforward response id which is the same value as you see over here, right? And then eventually when you click on cancel response you'll see none as the out output. What this means is when I'm, when I'm trying to retrieve that particular response id, it will show me that this overall response is still there with that response id but it has been canceled over here because the output has been nullified. Now if I click on if or rather I print the retrieved response status, you can see like the output status has been canceled, in which case we are showing like if a long task was queued and then we do not need it anymore in that background mode to be running all the time, we can just cancel it using this particular function client or responses dot canceled with the response ID or you can directly parse in that response ID string and then eventually you are able to see that canceled response. Now we can also stream a background response. So over here you can see that we are parsing this uh, client responses, create background true same thing as before. And then we parse in the stream equal to true parameter. And here what happens is of course we can get that chunk of information as the output, but you can see like we are getting those response chunks getting created and as you can see like it's gonna go through each and every step and showcase that the status is still in progress while it's trying to generate it. But we are able to see it in real time that the streaming of that information is coming in and then the response output item is being added, the content part is being added with some additional delta measures being created as we walk along. Alright, so this covers up quickly. I know there's a lot of response details here, but again you can take a look, run it on your own time and then eventually you'll be able to see like a similar output. Now switching gears to reasoning summary. Now as you recall the responses API, it can generate concise natural language summaries of the model's internal chain of thought similar to what you see in chat GBT, right? And that makes it really easy for developers to either debug the information audit and build better user experiences in the end. So reasoning summaries are now available at no additional cost and what's happening here is we are parsing the instructions leveraging oh four mini model and we are parsing in the respective tool. In this case we are using code interpreter and uh, the instruction we are parsing are you are a personal math tutor. When asked a math question, run the code to answer the question. Now as I print in the response, as you can see we have the response ID here the set of instructions and then we get these response reasoning items because we have enabled them. And then eventually you are able to see step by step what is the, the overall reasoning that is taking under place while this question query is being invoked to run the model and generate a respective output. So here we have the summary of the text where the user wants to help with this equation. So I'll guide on the steps and it's giving you all these reading reasoning steps in quite some detail. We have this type as reasoning over here and then eventually code interpreter tool call is being invoked. The reasoning item ID is also presented over here for you to like really go deeper and take a look at step by step what really is happening as part of this particular invocation. Now in this case we also have like the response dot output text where I'm printing basically the output response. And here you can see again like the same refined output response with the reasoning effort. And I can, let's say I wanna look at like the overall summary of what really happened in that step by step reasoning guide, right? So in this case I have enumerated like the overall response output and I'm trying to print the reasoning summary at each and every step. So here you can see like the overall summary with the respective ID is getting created and you can see how the model actually arrived at the respective output. Now in a similar way we can change like the reasoning summary from different aspects. If you wanna have more detailed summary like on this in a step by step manner to walk through this particular reasoning response. So in this case we parsed this reasoning parameter with summary as detailed and it'll show me again step by step in a more detailed manner at every step of the stage like how the reasoning is getting assembled, it's getting created, we have the parallel tool called and eventually we have this reasoning effort with efforts showed as medium and the summary as detailed in a similar way I can parse in and check the reasoning summary for the second user input question and eventually take a look at this detailed response that is getting created. Now let's move on to the next aspect that we talked about, which is encrypted reasoning items. Now this is essentially useful for customers who are leveraging the zero data data retention capability, right? Where we can reuse reasoning items across those API requests without those reasoning items getting stored in the open AI servers. Now in this case what we are doing is we are just parsing one additional parameter. In this case it is include reasoning encrypted item. And here we have a simple question about implementing a simple web server in rust from scratch. And as we print this output response, you will see that we are not able to, you know, dive and look at this entire reasoning in simple plain text English anymore. Now we have the encrypted content over here and eventually we have directly the response output text that is getting printed. And the users, when they're trying to look at the reasoning item summary, they will see this encrypted content. So it's really useful for folks let's say working in the financial industry, regulated industries and in healthcare sector where they want to have encryption in place for that reasoning summary item. Okay, hopefully this reasoning summary and the encrypted reasoning summary feature was clear to everyone on the call. And now the last step is let's move on to the file search feature with additional attributes that were launched as part of this recent release. So here what we are doing is first simply, you have seen this before, we are uploading a file to the file API, right? We have already uploaded this. I can fetch the file id, you can always take a look at your uh, platform and then find this output. Uh, actually let's do that. Let's go into our platform.openai.com and then take a look whether this was really created. Now if I go into my dashboard on the left side, I go into storage and then over here you can see that we have that same file ID that got created as part of this invocation, right? So if I come back, we have this file, which is deep research blog PDF with this respective file ID that I can see even in my, uh, even in my dashboard. Now coming back, as you know already, we can also create a vector store, which I've already created in interest of time, which is indexing the, uh, vectorizing all of the, uh, input information that is stored within this deep research block PDF file. And eventually if I move to vector store, you should be able to see that this knowledge base was created by me with the same vector id. And then these are, this is the file attached as part of this vector store. Now we have added the file to this vector store through this particular client vector store file create. And then I can also take a look at whatever files have been listed within this vector store using this particular function. Now we have set up our knowledge base and what you can do is you can include a file search tool in these list of tools that are available over here to the model along with the list of vector stores that we want to search. So this is additional level of granularity that we have recently added within responses, API that you can add your vector store IDs over here. Uh, and then you can add, as of now I believe you can add up to two vector store IDs and then it'll eventually expand too many more. And then you can search within the vector store ID these particular questions which are being invoked as part of responses API. Now as I print this out, again you get the response id, you get the response file search tool call that is happening as part of this invocation and then the response output message right here, you can easily see like this is the file citation that is occurring as part of this output. And then eventually you have the output text that you can easily get when you print that response output text feature. And in the tool calls you can see like which vector store ID was invoked. And then you also have like the ranking functions, the maximum number of reserves in this case, 20 which you can set on your side. And when you have the ranking options in place, you have the ranker set as auto as of now and using the file search tool within the responses, API as I mentioned, you can set the number of results as well you want to retrieve from the vector store. Now in this case, we have set the maximum number of results as two, which can help reduce the overall token usage and latency. But then eventually you'll have to find that balance between the overall performance versus trade off between the cost and the latency. And you can print out the respective response over here in a similar way while you can see annotations or reference to files in the output text. The file search call will not return the search results by default. So to include the search results in the response, you can use the include parameter, which is right over here when creating the output response, right? And when you are creating this, you'll be able to see like the output text, the output response, all of that output will be available over here as part of this uh, file, uh, as part of this calling. Now the next thing I wanna show you is metadata filtering where you can filter the search results based on the metadata associated with these files. Within the metadata context. What we are doing is we are asking similar kind of question, what is the research by OpenAI? And we parse in the vector store id, right? It's the same vector store ID we have been using and we can parse in some additional metadata filters, right? Like type key and value. The value is the blog and then the type is whether it equates or equals to the overall parameter that is being invoked, right? So in this case we have this particular question, The response Output message. You've already seen this, the output text, and then you have the web store id, the comparison filter with the maximum number of results as I've already shown you. You can modify this, update this, And then eventually Get the respective output. Now hopefully this gave you an idea of least some of the things that we can do with the latest features, the latest tooling that are available within responses. API. Now let's move back to the presentation Now talking quickly about the availability and pricing. So all of these tools, features that are currently available within responses, API as I mentioned, they are supported in L GB four oh series in 4.1 series and open AI o series reasoning models, right? So pricing for the existing tools remains the same for the image generation piece. As you can see, it's $5 for a million text input tokens as of today and $10 for a million image input tokens. Along with that, we have $40 for 1 million image output tokens with 75% off our cached input tokens. The rest of the details you can easily see through that for the code interpreter file search and the remote MCP server. Note that the remote MCP server, we do not have any additional cost bearing, so you are simply bill for output tokens from the API. Now moving on to the best practices one, you can keep the reasoning items in context now. So whenever you are doing tool calling function, calling with a reasoning model in the responses API, uh, you can pass back reasoning items returned with the last tool call with the last function call. In addition to the output of your function within the subsequent request, either you can parse it manually by simply copy pasting that information or you can use previous response ID parameter, right? And you must select the tools that the model can access, although it may or may not use the selected tools. So you can have like an auto selection parameter criteria that you will see then within responses, API and that can help you in providing more, uh, context to it or invoking the right tool. Now with respect to controlling the cost and allocating space for reasoning, we have already mentioned about tools and reasoning models that will increase token usage exponentially. So it's important to have cost check basically and how you allocate the space for different reasoning. Always be aware of the limitations. Currently sequential tool calling is available at the moment, but models can currently only invoke one tool by response. So of course this can change over time. A lot of things happen really fast. But some of the best practices that you need to keep in mind as we walk along with latest updates within responses. A PII hope this was helpful for you to gain a quick understanding of some of the latest technology updates that we have released, some of the latest tooling that we have released within responses, API and I'm sure there's a lot more to come. Thanks so much.
