# AI Techniques (Production): Building Practical Evaluation Systems

<!-- vimeo: 1145776722 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1145776722)

<details>
<summary>자막: AI Techniques (Production): Building Practical Evaluation Systems</summary>

Okay. Testing, testing. Is everybody ready? I see some excited faces. That's always good. Okay, cool. Um, a little bit about myself. I'm Rob. Great to meet you if I haven't already. Um, I'm actually particularly passionate about evals because I spent a long time as a ML developer in the healthcare domain. And I can't think of a domain that is more important to have evals for when your automated systems are at almost a higher bar than a human in terms of making mistakes, although evals are obviously super important across all domains. So just in this kind of quick session before we get hands on, we're just gonna cover evals at a high level, particularly how you can run them in the OpenAI platform, some of the best practices that we've kind of summarized, and then as, uh, Theo mentioned earlier with the hands-on lab, there are a couple of options. You can kind of do a guided one or you can do a challenging one which has less, uh, guidance essentially, and you have to do a bit more kind of looking at how to implement everything. So actually, this is my favorite slide in this whole kind of short presentation, and it's just a- it's a very simple slide, but just property from, from Greg. Evals are surprisingly often all you need. And I can't think of a better example than this actually than something, a property of large language models that for a long time we thought maybe could never be kind of mitigated, which is hallucinations. And I have a quick question actually. Does- has anyone noticed improvements and reductions in hallucinations when you use LLMs over the last few... Yeah, I can see a lot of nods, a lot of hands as well. And I think it's really interesting because there's actually a research paper and blog released recently by OpenAI this area. I don't know if anyone's actually read it. Raise your hand if you have, about how you can mitigate hallucinations or the, and how they arise. But I'll link you to it in the resource at the end. But essentially, you can think about hallucinations as really a result of evals in the sense that we used to have all these, uh, benchmarks and all these graders for when we train our models when we evaluated them. And you think about pre-training. If you're predicting the next token in a sequence, it's always advantageous, um, even if you don't have the context, to corre- to, to guess an answer rather than express uncertainty. A great example is let's say we had a summary of, of Theo and, uh, your, you've got some information about her as a presenter and then it's asked for her date of birth. You don't have the information for that, but it's always advantageous to guess September, uh, 2000, say. Um, and so again, what, why we're gonna see improvements in agents and improvements in models is evals now are much more real world. Rather than being like always a high school test and you can guess the answer and you can gain the system, you should actually have a system that can, um, provide uncertainty when no context is given. So I, that's, that's my favorite example of like where evals have really, um, mitigated a really important problem we were facing in the kind of AI community. So what are evals? So evals essentially, it's just a structured test that you can systematically assess the performance of LLM on systematic tasks. Um, maybe in a concrete example, I was speaking to a few folks from finance before. I think a really common use case I see is like fraud detection. So if we had an eval for fraud detection, it might be your dataset is card transactions. Your model is, maybe it's even a classic ML model to predict is this transaction fraudulent or not? You then have a grader, for example, is the ground truth, uh, is it just given the ground truth label? Is this transaction fraudulent or not? And you can capture metrics like accuracy, but in this case because it's gonna be a highly imbalanced problem, precision and recall are gonna be much more relevant. Um, so evals are super important because you can help teams benchmark accuracy, compare prompts or models, and track regressions. And actually, I was just speaking with, uh, somebody here and they were mentioning how it's so difficult now with having people adjust to, uh, having non-deterministic software. And so it's never been more important to have evals, um, to track these regressions over time in a clear way. In terms of the categories for evals, they kind of fall into these three main categories. So deterministic, so particularly simple if you have the ground truth. So if you have, uh, the ground truth label, you can do an exact match, um, or for example if you need instruction following for an output format, you can check that the JSON schema is correctly, um, generated. We also have model generate, model graded. So this is essentially an LLM as a judge. So you can judge the fluency, the relevance, the reasoning using a rubric. And then of course gold labels would be human graded. So a human manually reviewing one each time, which is I think nothing better if you have expert gold labels. But of course it's super expensive and time-consuming to gather these. In terms of the algorithm for effective evals, you can essentially view it as this flywheel where everything is very dynamic because in reality you are trying to solve a business problem. And business problems are inherently ill-defined. They change over time depending on different stakeholders. So first you have to define your task given the current information you have, clarify the input and the output, et cetera. You set the criteria. And it's best to always be specific and measurable here. And then you can then do this to, uh, go ahead and build a dataset, uh, using real representative inputs. And then finally, this is where the flywheel comes in, where you run and iterate. So re-running evals after each change, tracking the prompts and model improvements, and updating rubrics and datasets as needed.In terms of the types of graders in the OpenAI platform, so we provide a few different ones. Uh, of course, you have your string checks, so like just exact substring, regular comparisons, uh, comparisons against the ground truth label. Um, if you're doing a translation task, we also... You can also use the metrics like the BLEU score, uh, or the pass threshold. And then if you're using... if you're evaluating something a bit more intangible, something all around relevancy or, uh, something semantic, then we offer, of course, LLM as a judge. So we have score model, if you need a bounded score per rubric to set the pass threshold. We also have a label model where the LLM as a judge selects from labels and unifying these labels. And then finally we also have Python so you can, um, add custom codes to a certain variance or audit tool usage. So in terms of, uh, building towards eval-driven development, we kind of have these four different levels. And actually one thing that was pretty interesting to me earlier was we asked, uh, Bonnie asked, has anyone actually implemented evals? Actually, I'll do it one more time. Who, who has built evals for their systems? Because this is way higher than average, like a lot, lot higher, which is testament to the quality of people in the room. And then I guess like if everyone could raise their hands, who's built evals? And then have you built them for level one, level two? Bit, bit more level three, level four? So actually maybe not level four, but level three is like pretty much where we're at. Um, I'll give an example though, where, Where, where level one is really going to fall down badly actually. And I think a good example of this actually is the launch of GPT-5, because I don't know if you remember, but actually there was quite a lot of interesting vibes initially when GPT-5 was announced. And if you look now, the vibes are actually have almost gone up and they're very positive. And I think it can be really hard to evaluate a new model if it's purely vibes, because you might be used to the tone of the old model and you might not be evaluating it on longer tasks, on more complex tasks. And so if you evaluate it on, for example, generates my email to be a bit more polite. If the old model could do that and the new model can do that, you might just say, "It's not better," or even, "It's worse, but they're not the same." When in reality if you add, uh, more detailed, high-coverage, trusted evals, um, that can run continuously, you might be able to see these differences. So I guess where we kind of aim for is this flywheel, so where you can have, uh, evals running continuously on quad data via tracing and CI/CD feedback loops. Um, and one thing I really like on the platform actually that can help this is the agent's SDK. Does anyone use the agent's SDK with OpenAI at the moment? A few have, but very few. And actually specifically, have you used the tracing feature at all in the SDK? Yeah, exactly. Um, more exploratory. Okay, that's good to know. I think that if you haven't, I would highly recommend, as you say, because it's built in... Yeah, try them, try them out for you, yeah, different frameworks. It makes sense. But I think that those are the frameworks that really help you get to flywheel, because if you've got everything logged in so much detail, that's where you can really run everything continuously, track metrics over time and make real changes. So actually we're gonna get hands on with this in a second, but a quick overview of the evals API. Um, essentially what this allows you to do at the moment is create an eval by defining the dataset, the inputs, and optionally the expected outputs too, and specify the, the metrics. You can then go ahead and run the eval. So each eval can have one or more, one or ... runs, and you can analyze the results. So the API returns, uh, structured metrics, span level traces (techno music plays) Maybe just a, a quick practical example. So in this case here, uh, an evaluation contains a question and a correct answer, which we call the ground truth. So in this case, the question is, what is the population of ca- Canada? And then in this case, what the agent does is it thinks, it reasons, and you can actually order this with the reasoning trace- with the reasoning summaries in the OpenAI response API. It takes an action. So object calling, as some people call it, or tool usage, as others call it. Uh, the action here is search. So what is the population of Canada? We can then use this to do retrieval. And then in this case here, what we have as the evaluation is, the predicted answer actually matches the ground truth. So this one passed. The technical patterns we see, we just have metric-based evaluations, so the BLEU score, the ROUGE score. Uh, and I think these are all helpful up to a certain point. So you use like the BLEU score for translation, for example, and ROUGE for summarization, because they're both, uh... BLEU is doing N-gram overlap- overlap between your candidate and your ground truth. And, uh, ROUGE is doing like a recall, um, comparison between your candidate and your ground truth. The, uh, component evaluations, so comparing the ground truth to prediction, and then the subjective evaluations are where these, uh, LLM-judged graders come in, so when you have a scorecard or a rubric to evaluate something subjectively. And maybe a really good example of this is sentiment, uh, analysis, because you could do a metric-based evaluation around certain keywords. But it's impossible to cover all the different variants of negation, um, or all the different stemming and lemmatization. So that's where these subjective evaluations become a really nice So again, just like, just covering like ROUGE score maybe for evaluating summarization tasks. In this case here, you have this, uh, metric-based evaluation for the original comparing to the machine summary. And we can kind of analyze this engram-recall and get a ROUGE score. And this can be really nice because you can kind of set a minimum threshold where your model or your agent is not performing well enough. You can kind of cut it at that threshold. But at the upper end of the score, it may not be helpful to directly compare because you can't capture all the nuances in trans- uh, in summarization with purely a metric-based evaluation. Again with BLEU score, in this case it'll be with translation. You can do the predicted translation and get a- another score which you can do filtering there. So yeah, just to summarize, what- what they're good for is they're a great starting point for these, uh, building press solutions. But what's to be aware of is, like they're not tuned to your specific context, and so you need some more specific evaluations to go to production. So a nice example with the component evaluations is, um, actually auditing, for example, uh, was, uh, is it the right search results? Has the right tool been, um, called and is the answer correct? So in this case here, again with our example with our kind of chatbot, which is given the question, what is the population of Canada? Uh, confirming that the answer matches the ground truth and that the correct tool was called. And then finally, actually doing subjective evaluations I see in production becoming more and more relevant because I think the advantage is it's super easy to throw up rubrics and throw up graders with LLM judges. And you can make these diverse, comprehensive, um, rubrics that can cover a lot of things. So you can cover the, uh, tone of your agent. You can cover, um, also, um, how efficient it was, and it can cover how, um, not just the, um, if the answer is gonna be matching the ground truth, but how well it communicates that to the user. And I think one thing that we're seeing more and more is that almost like the personality and the explainability of agents is becoming more and more important as they're getting rolled out to more and more use cases. I'm gonna skip over just the example framework because of time, but kind of to summarize, best practices are back to the agent SDK, uh, point. Log everything because evals need, uh, test cases. And so if you've logged everything, it gives you such a strong starting point. You create the feedback loop that you need to build evals into your application. I think a really key point is about employing expert labelers who know the process. So again, like was having a conversation earlier around the importance of gold labels, having these experts, having your, um, inter-annotator agreements as well to quantify the quality of that label. It's super expensive, but that can be your held out kind of gold data set which you can use and then you can employ other techniques to label your data to evaluate early and often. For example, using LLM judges or capturing in your AB tests some kind of noisy signals or noisy labels. And then finally, with retrieval, um, always evaluate retrieval quality before generation. So I mean, the kind of obvious ones are precision and recall. Uh, with agentic systems, evaluate the right tool when the right agent was called. Um, are the arguments syntac- syntactically and semantically correct? And with multimodality, uh, we, actually the best example was when Akshay was talking earlier about voice agents. Um, it can be really hard to evaluate them and the most common technique we use for that is transcription. So analyzing the full trace of the agent in the text domain. Yeah. Yeah. So I have a quick question before I lose this thing. Yeah. So how do you, uh, apply evaluation for, uh, ever-changing data? Because the example which you showed was population. By the time the evaluation was, the population would have changed in the moment, right? So like that we are also, you know, I come from Walmart so we also see the inventory changes happening, the schedule changes happening and everything, right? So how do you do it and when is the exact time to do evaluation? Are there any recommendations? Okay, in a minute you need to do evaluation or do you check the ground truth on a daily basis? How- how do you do that? So as often as f- as feasible basically. So I guess the common pattern is to have an inference table. So we have that essentially in the platform when you have your, all of your inputs and outputs stored, um, along with other metrics like the latency and the tools called. And then in terms of evaluating that as regularly as possible, creating an eval so that you're running your judges, um, running your, um, checks that you can do against them. And then you can essentially track metrics over time because you're gonna track the data drift, the concept drift, all of these things. Um, in terms of what you said about how do you basically track the... It's basically tracking the ground truth. And it's really difficult because population of Canada is in some, in a sense a terrible example because it's constantly changing. So I said there's two ways you can do this. Um, the first way you can do this is you can evaluate just like a single point of a agent trace. And what I mean by that is let's say I create a synthetic knowledge base with synthetic answers. I can test that with a very long detailed conversation that by that specific step, the agent can use the right sequence of tools to retrieve the correct answer, which, you know, may be a synthetic, uh, population of Canada, um, candidate to confirm that's correct. The much, the much harder one actually is the full agentic setup, which is just given a user prompt and system prompt, let the agent go off.... and be able to retrieve, um, the, the ground truth correctly. I would say for the agentic setup, um, what's just as important as the ground truth is also, uh, the s- like you, the, the metrics you capture are speed, cost, uh, interpretability, tool calls, all these things. So, um, I guess the short answer to that question is designing these evals, so that even if it's a synthetic example, uh, you're still capturing kind of, uh, realistic user behavior. Okay. Can I just add one, one additional thought? Um, I wanna stress this synthetic. So when you think about testing a system, you have to test the parts as well as the whole. And Rob's pointed out, I think a, a, a point worth stressing, and that is for the retrieval of the population of Canada, what you really wanna test is that your queries are coming in and your retrievals are accurate, and that the response takes that into consideration. And if you lock the population to test the system, which would be the same design as the, uh, system that's supporting the, um, fluctuating data, if you like, that at least validates that the individual parts, um, s- you know, should be, uh, you know, equal to the whole nonsense. So the population comes back at, as a number that you've effectively set synthetically, that shows that, you know, again, the queries, the retrievals and the response is actually producing the right, uh, number. Now, granted when it goes into production, there's gonna be some moving parts, but you know that those pieces are working accurately. So that is for deterministic workflows, right? Things which... because you, you're sure about, you know- Yeah. ... capturing, because you put some, some effort to even lock- Yes. ... the data, right? That itself is one level of development- Yeah. ... which you need to do. For non-deterministic workflows or something where you want to, uh, understand anomalies, which is what is interest everyone wants to, uh, solve the problems for, right? So maybe there's a different way of evaluating. I, I don't know. I'm just asking question. Yeah. Yeah. So let's take a, a, a... so again, it's a valid point. If you... well, I don't know, this may be covered later, but multi-agentic flows, we're covering it later, right? Okay. I think, uh, I think we'll see s- some of it there, but each of those agents can be tested individually before you combine them as a whole. That would be my way of thinking. Always break this down to the parts and then build up to the, the full. I, I would really agree with that, like break them into the, the smallest sub-component you can. And maybe to get at your example of a non-deterministic agent, the, the best example I work with is the coding agents. So you can imagine from a developer instruction, navigate a really complex code base and be able to complete the task quickly, accurately with explainability and correctly. And so you... in this case, you do have to... if you want to evaluate accuracy, you do have to have like some fixed example. So in this case it would be fixed unit tests and fixed compilation checks. And so that's why, like in the knowledge-based example, I'd say even if in reality the knowledge is changing, fix it for the moment with like some facts around the population of Canada and then use that to evaluate the accuracy. Watch him move like that. Sorry. Maybe helpful, maybe not. Uh, one example, one exercise that I do with my customers all the time is, I ask them for an architecture diagram, and whenever they have an OpenAI call or an LLM call, I basically draw a box around it and say, "Okay, what do we need to evaluate at this specific step in the pipeline?" So if we go back to the triage, we would have a box around the triage say, "Okay, is the category correct, um, based on a golden data set?" Then I'd go to my specialist, again, "Is the response correct given the answer?" So given the specific policy information that I know is relevant is what my agent's saying correct. And then on the other side is, am I fetching the correct information from the knowledge base as well? So like really making sure that each independent step is like thoroughly evaluated is, um, normally what I'm kind of aiming for. So basically you're spending more time on evaluation criteria than- Yeah. ... right? Than- Yeah. ... actual (laughs) ... evaluations, right? Yeah. 100%. (laughs) I think nailing down what good means- Yeah. ... is the most important part of the process. I, I remember on onboarding a new SA about six months ago and running them through the eval process, just like at this level. And first comment was, "Who the hell's gonna do this? It's too much work." Yeah. This is the dirty little secret to ensuring quality outputs. Absolutely. So we, we use a tool to generate test cases. Okay? So maybe that's an idea, and then how do you rank those test cases depends on the tool quality, which generates test cases, right? Yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm eager to learn a little more here. I guess very quickly on that is, for those test cases we look for when you have your inference table in production, capturing user metrics around thumbs down or just failure to respond to conversation, taking those examples and then iterating on synthetic examples for evals. That would be my main tip. Yeah. That's- Maybe a different question. So there's- When you're... when the data you're looking over is fast changing and big, like let's say you're having a text-to-SQL model that's gonna run over your BigQuery data, so logs, and these things are terabytes of data, and they're changing all the time. What is the best practice here for doing that? Do you think that are definitely an- another SA to chime in if they've gone text-to-SQL, but I would say, uh, what I would do 100% is take regular snapshots and fix it. Because then you can do a realistic, because it's up-to-date, um, check, but it's now you have ground food, and you can do direct comparisons against different prompts, different models. Uh, great question. Um, maybe I can add two cents over there. Your question was around how do you get text-to-SQL if you have like a really big structured database and you can't stop all that in the model's context. Um, I've seen s- success where folks have done RAG over that. So essentially your, uh, model knows your schema, it knows the tables and it has data definitions, so it knows what's in those tables.But in terms of the, exact, uh, data structure, the, you know, the, the format of all of the strength, uh, uh, that's something you can copy through RAGs. And, uh, that's actually faster as well because as you know, the more you stuff the context, the longer the time to first token is. So it's good for latency. It's usually more accurate as well, uh, you know. So essentially there, but it's more towards, uh, setting up that, that pipeline and less towards like prompt engineering. And it's a test of your, um, it's a test of how well you refine your schema versus how good your prompt engineering is. With transformer, it's much easier to do and more reliable in its, uh, results. Awesome. Um, I'm actually keen to like let you do the fun stuff. So I'll just very quickly cover the final part of it, which is some updates to GPT-5, which I'm sure some of you will actually be familiar with, but maybe the nuances, not so much. So I guess essentially the key is here, until recently we've had these, this primary choice between the reasoning models and our models. Uh, seeing a lot of heads nodding. And the whole point of GPT-5 is to start to unify this. So having a single model for coding and agenting tasks. Um, and the, the three flavors here are GPT-5, GPT-5 mini, and GPT-5 nano. So maybe a quick example of borrowing the coding agent scenario again, is if you want to reach back to your code base or do a really difficult task, you go to GPT-5. If, for example, you want to im- uh, implement your triage agent, like Per mentioned before, you could use GPT-5 nano when a user is typing, to classify, is this like, how do I do a terminal command? Or is this, uh, you know, generate me a billion dollar SaaS, make no mistakes. (singing) And then the kind of two key parameters here are reasoning effort and verbosity. So essentially, uh, you can add these parameters in, uh, when you do your call with the response API. Um, and there's a slight interplay here which we've actually seen, which is if you do set a lower verbosity, so like lower number of output tokens, we do see perhaps like some reduction in reasoning too. Um, maybe to like give a, an example actually of verbosity, so that this would be like verbosity high versus medium versus low. And of course you need evals to know when these are appropriate for your use case and for the different reasoning efforts. And balancing these, these three then, they allow you to optimize for accuracy, latency, and cost. And then, yeah, I think we've covered this already, but kind of journey we see is then prototyping, so starting out on GPT-5 to maximize your success rate. And then as you scale, uh, engineering, um, and swapping to smaller, simpler models, possibly even fine-tuning, um, later on to distiller model, and then that saving and latency savings to you. (singing) Over to our hands-on lab actually. So, um, as I, as I said earlier, like if you feel super confident, I really would encourage having a look at the evals challenge. I think everybody has the repo already. Like raise your hand actually, I actually got head nodding. So just like raise your hand if you don't have access to either the, the, uh, zip folder or the GitHub repo. Um, and then, yeah, what you'll be doing in this is, uh, defining some graders, running an eval on a JSONBind dataset, then fixing these results locally and in the evaluations dashboard, uh, on the OpenAI platform. And then the goal of this is just to understand how to structure these evals with the OpenAI platform. And I'd be particularly interested, like people have mentioned using different platforms, it'd be great to get your feedback, your insights too. Uh, and that's it. Thanks very much. (singing)

</details>
