# AI Techniques (Production): Use Case Discovery & System Scoping

<!-- vimeo: 1145775565 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Cool. Um, awesome. So first I wanted to introduce myself. I'm Teo, I'm a solutions architect here. Um, I'm actually based in London, so if I crash at around 3:00 PM I apologize, I will be very jet lagged. Um, but today I wanna talk a little bit about, um, problems coping and definition, which is something that you all do in your day to day when you're thinking about a new AI problem that you wanna solve. So we're gonna talk a little bit today about how to scope a problem, um, what success looks like, and how to think about success criteria. Um, then we're gonna go through an actual scoping exercise, which you all should all participate in. Hopefully it's gonna wake you all up as the first session. And then finally we'll regroup for q and a and discussion. So first of all, when we're thinking about use case ideation and scoping, we think about two main axis. The horizontal one, it's gonna be the complexity of the problem. So how easy it is to actually build the problem to how complex. And then the vertical one is the impact that that problem actually has on your business, um, on your users and so on. So, lower impacts at the bottom, and then higher impact at the top. And I'm gonna go, um, clockwise in this, starting from the bottom left with the lowest impact, lowest um, effort category. Um, these are the simple successes. These are the little problems that you can use with, uh, you can use Chad GBT with, um, for, sorry, can English. Um, so the little problems that you can useche GBT for your kind of day-to-day interactions with AI that help you automate the simplest task. And we have a few examples here, like writing meeting summaries or drafting product briefs and things like that. But I actually wanna hear from you what you're using AI for in your day-to-day. So don't be shy, raise your hand. We actually have some mics around here that I'm gonna ask someone to help me distribute. Thank you. Nice. I'll leave them on the table. And if you're brave, there is one there as well. Hi. So we're using like mostly for like the enterprise. Like most of the use cases is mostly like no summarization. Mm-hmm. So you give like document or like non share points and give, like, know all these summarization on the results. Yeah. That is one of the known, the high and low impacting use cases in of like non Percent. When's the last time you read a full document? That's what I expected. Who is brave? Nice testing. So it For basically extracting specific e features out of like notes fields. Mm-hmm. Um, field service engineers throw in a lot of notes and to extract that information and be able to synthesize it for future repairs helps a lot. Nice. Cool. Thanks. So in the simple successes, I, I use it often to make my email sound nicer. I'll just a hundred percent. I'll write it like, you know, brain dump and then like, okay. Make it sound nicer. Uh, and then, um, there's a lot of enterprise use cases. Um, I support, um, compliance as a business, so there's a lot of like legal data that could be then parsed to like more simple requirements and things like that. So. Nice. Cool. Thank you. Yes. This and then, then there you go. Okay. Yeah. Hi, my name is SI represent John Deere and Hi. Hi. So, so, uh, we primarily use, uh, LLMs for, uh, service manuals that we use. Um, we have like close to 10,000 or 15,000 service manuals in each of those manuals has about 5,000 pages. And, uh, we have like, uh, 50,000 users every single day. And one of the greatest accomplishments, apart from the numerous awards that we got internally in dear, uh, we are proud about our teams and, uh, the product that we built because, uh, Sam Altman spoke on the first day and because we reached a hundred billion tokens. Nice utilization. Yeah. But is that a simple low impact project, would you Think? It's not? That's what I thought. Yeah, that's what I thought. You're here Fair. Um, I use it for, uh, fixing builders maker, schedule manager, schedule, contact, switching, just nice. Keep a running tab of everything that's going on and I can get back into what I'm doing very, very quickly as opposed to having to remember where the hell am I, I've got 45 minutes and it already knows. Nice. Awesome. That's very cool. Awesome. Well, that's the simple wins. Um, if we go higher up, that's the high impact easy wins, which is the first use case that you should be thinking about when building with ai, because that's gonna be extremely valuable for your business, but it's also not gonna take that long for you to actually build it and make it a reality. So we have a few examples here again, um, things like synthesizing focus group feedback, um, for kind of easier understanding of research, competitive market research, um, design prototyping, data analysis and so on. Again, we'd love some more examples from you all in that bucket of like, easy wins, but high impact for the business. It, it's something I talked about earlier. So it's, um, as a highly regulated industry, like when something changes upstream in regulations, it has it kind of spider webs into all of our, all of the things that we do. So having AI take the first crack at it, like we, it's also a field that you definitely need human in the loop and things like that. So identifying where all a new reg or a change in reg could impact. Um, that's something we're experimenting with AI Guys. Thank you. So one of the things like no, we're doing, uh, for engineers, like no, especially like no building, uh, agents, like no for the, uh, code development. So that is kind of, it's, uh, easy and high impact. So that's something like Nomex is doing a lot more and enabled for like notes almost no 500 plus engineers. Awesome. Nice. That's definitely something that I do every time I build something. So good to know. One more, Just zero to one software projects. Yeah, A hundred percent building demos. I've, the last few demos I built, I think GBT five built the entire thing for me. I only had to tweak it a little bit, but for demos it's great. Cool. Awesome. Um, and then going into the biggest area, um, it's the high impact complex projects, which is the kind of natural next step of how to expand an easy win that, um, is high value for the business. So investing more time, investing more resources to actually nail down the accuracy, the, um, guardrails, the safety and security considerations before you're actually going into production. Those are examples that take months to build, like customer service, like the John Deere example that we just heard a little bit before. Um, and so on. And I'm sure a lot of you have, um, a lot of these examples in hand as well. So over to you all, what are you all doing with AI that's complex. We're also doing lot more like on the major projects, like, you know, the customer facing, you know, the chat bots. Yeah. If you look at like on the AMX and the current chat bot is enabled, like, no, it's known the chat gt, like known enabled, uh, GT four oh oh model enabled for that. So, and also, uh, some of the like known, uh, use cases like non marketing side, so marketing content generation for the known the card members. So that also is like not highly regulated because like know if the models is like non some pollination. So we cannot send that to like known the customers. So we put lot of like non guard to make sure that like, know it's specific to the known, uh, specific markets and know, like non said language, know everything, know we're before sending to any emails to the customers. Nice. Thank you. So we do something called e and o, uh, analysis, um, which basically we analyze, uh, stock of materials in different, uh, manufacturing sites and we identify if there's any excess or overuse, uh, obsolete kind of products and what can we do to reuse them. So kind of a more sustainability green greener initiative. And we use a multi-agent workflow for that, which has been, uh, pretty powerful for us. Um, and it's relatively complex 'cause of all the nuances of, uh, moving stock around. Nice. That's very cool. It's also not a super common use case, I would say. So. It's quite novel. Cool. Well the last bucket is low impact, very complex problems, which, uh, we normally recommend don't bother, uh, don't look there, no one wants to build that. It's the thinkless tasks that don't really matter for the business and it's just, um, a nightmare to actually implement. So that's pretty much the, the chart. Now how are we thinking about ai? Um, as a kind of tech success organization, we have a few different stages. First of all, we would have a conversation with you trying to understand the problem, and this is what the exercise today is gonna do. Um, as well, we're gonna look at a case study and, um, you all will have to kind of scope the problem, understand the requirements and so on. Now this normally takes two to four weeks, depending on how fast we can get to all the people in a room and actually understand all the requirements from all the sides of the business that are involved in that specific project. And the exit criteria here is actually understanding the user stories that we need to tackle and potentially, um, actually building an architecture diagram of what we actually want to build going forward. Once we have that, we're going into second phase, which is the one that takes the longest. It takes months to actually develop an AI project, as most of you probably know or have seen, um, where you need to iterate on the accuracy, you need to iterate on your prompts, on the techniques that you're using, your rag search and so on. Um, and it takes a while because all after every modification you have to go back to evals, understand what impact it had, and then go back and iterate, um, over and over again until that accuracy target is reached. And this is what we're gonna do after this, throughout the whole, the, the two days that we have together going into the actual development stage of it with evals as the first sit, first class citizen, then going into agents, going back to evals, going into rag, going back to evals, fine tuning back to to evals and so on. And this is meant to mimic a very small scale of what the development process should actually look like in production. Once the accuracy target is actually met, now you're ready to go into the testing and evaluation stage, which is your kind of deployment strategy. Um, and it should be the same for normal features as the, uh, it is for AI features. So things like AB tests or getting focus groups of users trying to understand their feedback. But like any strategy that gives you external feedback from, um, real users is gonna be your kind of testing and evaluation criteria here. Once you get that feedback, you'll have to iterate again on the solution, make sure it actually, um, meets all of those requirements before you're thinking about the last step, which is full production. And this means launching to a hundred percent of your internal, uh, intended users, um, with all the feature capabilities that you had in mind for the specific project. Um, and obviously this is scary, but if you do the first three things right, you should, that should be smooth sailing. So hopefully the production should be the one thing that results from the first three steps done well. Um, now after production, you're not done as generally you're not done. Once feature is in production, you actually have to maintain it. And we're gonna talk a little bit about maintenance as well, but making sure that you have continuous evaluation pipelines that make sure that nothing goes wrong as the feature is live. Um, we'll give you the peace of mind that you need to actually continue, um, supporting that feature. Um, moving forward and with that, um, why is it actually important to scope a solution to think about defining an actual problem? Well, we have three main pillars. The first one is pillar defining the problem. This means understanding what you actually need to do, talking to your business users, understanding their pain points, understanding their process, and then trying to kind of mimic that and automate that. Um, assuming here doesn't really help all the time. If you think you know what they're doing, you don't necessarily know what they're doing. So make sure you really spend the time with the users to understand what they're doing every time. Then um, you need to prioritize by impact because in the first step when you're defining the problem, you're gonna probably find 10, 15 workflows that are different that people want to automate and you can't possibly focus on all of them at the beginning. So you need to start prioritizing. You need to think about that quadrant that we saw before of what are the easy wins first and what is the high impact easy thing that we can build, and then what are the more complex tasks that we can think about in the long term as an expansion of what we're actually doing. And finally we have the designing a solution. So once you have the key priority areas, you need to start thinking about, um, the architecture of that solution, how it fits with the existing system, because presumably you're not gonna build this as the first system first feature of the system. So how it all integrates, how it works together, um, and how, um, the AI can actually help with the different techniques to make, um, the problem a reality. And with that, um, let's go into the exercise. So we have Acme Corp that we're using today. It's a fictional e-commerce, um, platform that we use normally for demos. Um, and they have a problem with their customer service requests. I'm not gonna read this out loud, but you all should have a printout as well on your desk. I'm gonna leave this up, I'll give you two, three minutes to read through it. And then what I want you to do is just ask me questions as if I was part of Acme Corp and I'll try to respond. So what do you all need to know? Uh, do you have, uh, pictorial representation of your workflow today? I do. I'll show it in a second, but yes, assume that we do. We have three main channels. We have email, we have chat, and we have phone. Uh, assume it's global. Yeah, mainly English, but uh, we have some other languages as well. What is it worth to the company to prevent one customer from churning? Uh, let's say that churn would be around like a thousand dollars a year that we're thinking about. Uh, do the current support agents find that it, the, uh, a lot of the human review tickets tend to be more complaint box of saying, my thing doesn't work and there's nothing actionable? Or are there things that they actually can do? Or is it just some random mix that, that that's part of the frustration of the employees? Yeah, We have this data somewhere. I think it's maybe around, um, 20% around uh, refunds, 10% around cancellations, and then the rest is gonna be a bit of a mix of everything, to be honest. Yeah. So the triage is kind of our tier one support. We have triage agents, human agents, everything I'm talking about now is human. Um, we have human agents who can look at the problem, triage it to a specific category, but if it's simple enough they can also answer. Um, if it's not, if it requires kind of tier two support, so expert support, they're gonna triage it to a specialized agent. Again, human agent to look at it. Yeah. Yeah. So we have, um, again, there's list of categories I mentioned. We have refund, cancellations, feedback and other currently, um, but other is a bit of a catchall, so we don't have it, um, very detailed. What's the breakdown of those categories? So like 20% refund, 10% cancellation, let's say 10% feedback, and then rest is other. Uh, what if you had to quantify long? Uh, do you have a, like a range? Let's say it takes between 10 to 15 minutes on average to actually resolve a ticket. How have heuristics failed in the past? Um, long waiting times for humans to actually respond because our agents are quite stretched and they will have to like respond to five different tickets at the same time. Um, frustration with kind of the language that they use. They're like overly apologetic without really giving a response or, um, they can't really find the right information. Things like that is the most common, Most important. What is the revenue impact of this? I don't have a number for you, I have to assume one. Um, but let's say we can, we're hoping to get in the order of like low millions from this Is the only use case in the organization, which has this kind of workflow or any other use cases Currently the only use case that we're considering. What's the margin you have on if you just hire more people to do this manually? Like, you know, you save a thousand dollars turn per customer to solve a problem that you avoided churning, you can hire 10 more people that produces some amount of churn. What's the kind of rate of return on humans for this task? I think humans, we've considered that and humans are quite expensive. I don't think I have a specific rate for you, but I think we're kind of maxed out on the amount of humans we can afford right now. So the level one agents, majority of them are majority of the requests they get, they classify it and they assign to somebody. And the second level agent, are they hitting a button to initiate a workflow or are they like, Is it they have to manually look through documents and policies to find the right answers. So like they will have playbooks that they can follow. Um, and more experienced agents will be a bit better at following that. But uh, um, yeah, it's all manual currently. So How are the customers interacting with you directly or indirectly? Like do you have any feedback survey tool? Um, so we'll have the feedbacks from the, or like at the end of each chat or email or phone call conversation, we're gonna send a follow up to give us feedback. But you know, what it, how it is with these feedback forms, some people do, um, fill them out more, people don't. So it's a bit of a kind of hit and miss on whether we actually know how the conversation has gone. Um, so How do you measure the accuracy of your customer survey index? Um, it's mainly user activity on the platform. So we see how active they are when they kind of come onto Acme Corp and start, um, purchasing items for example. And then we see kind of user activity like weekly active users basically that we're tracking. Um, and then we also look at revenue numbers, um, as a kind of more holistic view. Any legal challenges or any regulations there to take care while ing this? Yeah, um, I think the riskiest part is around the, um, payments stuff. Um, so we don't wanna mess up anything that has to do with like actual money impact on customers. So that's the trickiest one to think about. And it's the most regulated as well. 'cause we don't wanna give false information, um, as anything we write on the chat or email can be used against us in like court if it comes to that. Uh, what percentage of these tickets require, uh, actual release or hot fix or like, like a change management that goes through the engineering team? Is that something you can shed light on The in? So like bugs for example? Yeah, like, like are these like just experience issues, which maybe they user misunderstood and there been like inconsistent response because inconsistent solution. Yeah. Um, doesn't either Fixes are inconsistent or the documentation's pretty bad. Um, just wanted to see what's the breakdown. Yeah, so we have, um, um, a few that would go back to our engineering team, but um, let's say like 10% of them can actually be fixed, otherwise just experience or something like that. Uh, can I, Yeah, please. How much data do you have of the customers? How, how, I mean, what is the amount of data you preserve of this customer resolutions in the past 3, 4, 5 years? How much of data you, So we have, uh, the log of chats of the last two years, let's say. Um, and then we will have the customer username and um, kind of details that they're sharing upon signup, um, and then the whole conversation history that has happened between them and an agent in the past. And is this a seasonal problem or is this, uh, Ongoing all year rent? Yeah. So I have two questions here. One is that if you have a perfect solution, what would that look like? And meaning if you just can call upon all the powers in the world to give you a perfect solution, what would that look like? The second one is, have you tried something in the past to give you that perfect solution and what were the challenges you faced? Yeah, so very good question. I think the perfect solution would reduce the time it takes for agents to respond from, say like the 10, 15 minutes we have now to maybe say two minutes on average. Um, and it would make it easier for agents to ask to answer the easy questions, um, so that they can actually focus more on the more difficult questions that we receive and pay more attention to those so that they can resolve them better, if that makes sense. We tried in the past automating it with kind of simple rules-based automations, but that, um, actually resulted in higher customer churn because of the frustration that they were getting because they couldn't like access the right part of the system, if that makes sense. So how is the data, are they looking at multiple data sources? Are they streamlined in their backend data? And where are the manual agents, the human agents spending most of their time? Are they spending more time jumping between different systems to find their data or is it centralized? They have a nice desktop today and it works well? So Yeah, well, you can assume that we're using something like a third party system integration for agents where they have their entire like knowledge base policies, rule book piece, basically. Um, that means they will have access to, um, the policies that they're seeing, but it's gonna take them a long time to find the right information in those policies. Um, and then you can also assume that we have a few different systems, um, for the action part. So if say you need to cancel an order, you need to go into our kind of ordering system and place that cancellation in there. If you need to refund, then again, that's a different payment system that you'll have to go in and like try to figure out, press the right buttons in there. Um, that's kind of the setup today, if that makes sense. How many requests come from a single customer, say per day, per month? From a Single customer? Yeah. Are they, is it all different customers or are they all coming from the same one or what's the distribution like? Yeah, I would think it's something like two, three requests per customers per, per customer per month. So it's not as often it's we will have return customers for specific issues, but we normally see like different types of customers having different types of issues with the items that they're actually ordering, if that makes sense. I see a point, uh, summarized context. My really my only question is yeah, the second point. So let's say if, uh, I pulled up data from different, uh, sources, and I'm summarizing the context, are we also thinking about providing references or citations? And the reason why I'm asking that question is because 80% of the time you might answer through ai, but there are like 20% edge cases and if I have to transfer that ticket to uh, customer service, he has to able to understand where this is coming from. Uh, thinking about like, is LLM hallucinating this information? And if we are thinking about providing citations, uh, we also have to worry about the P II because it's our account, uh, problems. Yeah, we haven't done anything. So all of that is gonna come in the second part of the exercise and I think that's a good segue into what we're gonna do. So first of all, you've done amazing. Like I only had 10 questions here. I think you threw more than 20 hit me and I love to see it. I think this is the process that gets you to really understand what's going on. And I think you nailed most of these questions already. It's like, what have you tried? How does support enter the system? How are tickets triaged and so on. So I think you've kind of gotten most of, um, of these discovery questions. Now what I wanted to show as promised is the architecture diagram. So we have three systems today. Um, they all go into our support ticket queue, then they go into kind of a human agent triage. So this is kind of our main tier one support. Um, if the tier one support can solve it, they can solve it and respond to the user. If not, they will have to, um, categorize it and send it to a human, a specialist agent. This, imagine this is valid for all of them, but because of lack of space, we have a specialized agent that is gonna look through the knowledge base and try to understand the information, the rule book, um, then they're gonna respond to the user and then they also have to write an RCA today, um, of what has happened, what was the resolution, um, and how we can potentially solve that problem as well. That goes back into the system. It can be to our engineering teams or it can be back in the rule book to kind of update the process of actually thinking about, um, these problems. Yes. Uh, root cause analysis. Cool. Now what I want you to do is take that architecture diagram that I showed you. You also have it in the printouts on the table and work in groups of say four, five depending on how you're placed at your tables to try to identify the opportunities. And then once you identify the opportunities, I want you to put it on the kind of, um, easy to hard, um, execution rates. So short term, long term, uh, things that we should think about. And then the high value, the low to high value access on the vertical. Um, we can spend say 15 minutes here. Um, and then we have facilitators around to help. So if you need help, raise your hand and then there Yeah, you go first. So for this use case, like we already have a data, right? Like previous history and everything. So now let's apply like non data driven from the previous no data sets and understand what is a high impact mm-hmm. Int and also, uh, customer like on the satisfaction, like on the score. So that also we need to be identified first and then we can like know plan for short term high value, like the use cases, not the one mentioned. Uh, yeah, fake. That's something like agent time. The second option is like no, you can put no context, no collections. Yep. So some of them is like known, uh, what happened, know most of the times, you know, the agent once like know the call to the agent know they'll ask like non, uh, name, like all kind of non metrics have something like know the, uh, information about like know the actual problem. So if you put that as a agent, now it's act as on the A agent which collect all this information, like friend and then forward that message to the like on the reality agent. So that way like no, you can reduce like the call volumes. Nice. So these are the like high value because like no, we're not putting anything like non A generated content to the customer yet. Yep. So this is more like know, reducing the call volume at the same time? No, the second option is like no, if the customer is not happy about not their previous conversation, we don't want to put that into the Feedback Yeah. Feedback. So, so directly, no center the human and no human can like, know, solve that kind of problem. Nice. Cool. I like the copilot idea for sure. The like as in like having something in the background helping the agent but not necessarily be user facing yet. So we already have this running in production in our mix. Nice. Awesome. Cool. Sorry, uh, we go here in there. Uh, similar idea. Yeah. Um, for input into the support ticket, uh, we could have AI summarizing emails Nice. To create the support ticket and then we could have an AI co-pilot and live chat and phone making sure that the problem, the customer's problem is understood, uh, repeat it back to the user and if it's correct, put that into the support ticket to increase the, uh, accuracy of the triage. Nice. So somewhere around here right? Adding right in that area. Yeah. Nice. Like that. Yeah, we, um, wanted to attack sort of the top of the funnel too and put a classifier for triage and then, um, also break off, uh, from the specialized agent there and have that go, uh, to two different categories of what needs to go to a human and what could be solved with a AI autoresponder. Nice. I like that. And then the AI auto responder would be something like a specialized agent? Yeah. Yeah. Nice. In like a more longer term, like in the short term where we talked about like, you know, a little bit like easier and, and behind the scenes ai, uh, in the long term, uh, the knowledge base like, uh, you know, a rag based knowledge base, uh, the, after we have the, like the classifier for each of the, the, uh, the groups refunds, returns and things like that. Uh, in the long term we could think about, um, a a multi-agent system where each of these is like an agent. Like we have a refunds agent, returns agent, um, and then have automated workflows. And these workflows may not be like completely like AI based and things like that. Like if, if refunds is like a set of actions, then automate that. So a mix of AI and, and, and then more deterministic workflows, that would be like a, a long-term, um, high value, high impact. A hundred percent. And to add to that, also having some sort of human touch upon the really risky ones could also be good to the point of like, we don't need to automate everything. We still can keep some of the tickets under, under humans. Under humans. So I read the first line which says over overrun by inbound customer request, right? So it's about the number of requests you're getting. Maybe the situation is that the refund entity over there has to take care of something which it does not know about returns or it has to take care, right? So one thing need whatever that agent, trash agent, we may convert that to a, be a better orchestrator or create one orchestrator in front of it. Mm-hmm. So that, you know, the subject matter expertise agent, which is refund agent, return agent, all those things are separate. They know how to solve their problems or the problems related to that. And then with the human in the loop and, uh, intelligent orchestrator, uh, we would, uh, be able to, the, the reason I'm telling this is because I see delivery issues connected to knowledge base. I don't see it referring the returns, other things connected to knowledge base. So Yeah, sorry, this is meant to be like a copy paste for each of individual boxes is just I didn't have space to put it in. Um, but yeah, it's, it's meant to be like for each kind of specialized, uh, for each category, we have a specialized agent who has access to a specific knowledge base and can respond to the user. Um, it's a copy paste, but No, that, that makes sense. So One of the idea that we thought about is, uh, how I can create a knowledge base based on the old tickets. Mm-hmm. Can I categorize those and identify all the successful ticket and then summarize that information, uh, to basically build some knowledge base that can be leveraged by a different agent, uh, later on the face. So almost rewriting your playbooks Yep. Based on the tickets that you've seen. I like that. Um, we actually tried to do this in production with someone, um, and they did succeed and it's the easiest way to kind of scale up your solution from kind of one of these specialized agents to many of these specialized agents for sure. But it's more long term, right? Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Nice. 60% of tickets and feed them into AI and see if it can identify more categories that are being done over and over again. Nice. More Playbooks. Yeah, a hundred percent. Cool. Any other thoughts, ideas? Yeah. Yeah, I just had one thought, maybe a question inside it. Um, I would think if we can shift left on the knowledge base, uh, where the support ticket triaging agent can with automation can look up the knowledge base. You could actually cut down the traffic. Yeah. Um, so, and to to earlier point where you said the actual change was much lesser, like something like 10% compared to like 90%, uh, we'd gain a lot by shifting that. Yeah. So one pattern that we actually see, um, is I see customers who have a specific triage that check if the question is an FAQ or not. And to the point made here, if you have a FAQ document, you can give the access to the agent triage just to respond the really simple questions. But if it's not an FAQ, you can go deeper and then go into the specialized process as well. A hundred percent. If you, you could put the FAU in a vector store and then based on the customer's question, like, you know, generate embeddings and like look for the closest and Yeah. Um, one thing I would note there is make sure it's actually a frequent question, right? So I would avoid embedding all the questions that I'm getting from a customer just because you can get into a realm of very niche edge cases that may be different from case to case, but um, yes, a hundred percent you can kind of update that FAQ with how whatever traffic you're getting in it. So it's more like know the second, like know two to six month of like know the implementations. Yeah. Like no, uh, if that is a case, like no, uh, we can add like no personalized, like on the faq. So what I see in production, like no sending FAQ is not like known hundred percentage known for that. Customers like no, we wanna be like, no send specific like no costings, but it's all static content. Uh, more like known co bot know some products, like known the card features and other stuff. Like no, uh, we cannot send like no general no FAQs. Is it specific to like non, uh, if you have like know some platinum card you need to send nonspecific non platinum related like no FAQs. So that is the second level of like non the high value, non the impact. Yeah, I think for the FAQ piece, um, what I'm thinking more is things that are relevant to all customers. So say in a delivery process, like what's the standard shipping time for UK addresses? Um, and that would be an FAQ because it doesn't matter like what type of customer you are potentially or maybe does depending on the business, but like things that would apply to everything, um, or all types of customers for sure. Uh, yeah, one of our smaller ones was, uh, to have a text to sql, uh, tool that, uh, you can get your structured data about the customer or the order, the item that's in question and add that, uh, directly to the ticket. Yep. Yeah. Um, there's something we can use function calling for, for, so defining the specific a p spec or, um, function spec that you have, um, and then asking the model to fill out the parameters there. So a little curious. It also, I mean, when you say that there's lot of inbound customer requests, how many customer representatives are there to support this today is also an important factor, right? You don't have an infinite number of people who can handle this request. So having that data of how many are live agents available and then making some dynamic decisions also is, is very important because if there is a support executive available, why not give a human touch? Yeah. But if it's not available, then use AI for most of the things that is you. I mean, that's what I was thinking. Nice. Yeah, no, that makes sense. Um, I think, again, I'll have to pull up the number that's completely arbitrary for this case, but, um, you can assume that we have, we're a maximum capacity of humans and we'd love to kind of free up some of their time so that they can focus on more complex ones so that they can actually find resolutions faster for the complex ones rather than kind of getting them stuck into answering the same easy question over and over again. Um, but yeah, that's, that's definitely a good point. Yeah. One thing we're thinking about, um, in the long run is not, uh, reactively triage, but proactively, while a customer login or a customer is able to identify themselves through, um, themselves through a certain way, doesn't really needs to go through the, uh, say whether they want to go to refund or go to return. If, if we know there are large scale event happen and it just proactively provide solutions or ask, um, say yeah, it's, uh, our website went down or there is, this is a, this is a holiday season, the delivery kind of got delayed and we give you a estimate when it's going to be, or, or one of our, uh, say delivery providers will run into issues, we give you an estimate. Things like that. Yeah, no, a hundred percent that makes sense. Um, definitely more longer term, but, um, I love that if I have a delivery and I know it's gonna be delayed, let the customer know. Yeah. So customer will feel far better then. Exactly. They have to go through the agents together. A hundred percent. Yeah. Cool. No one talked to me about this part, the RCM feedback part. What do we think there, If, can we, can we track like the whole thing? Like did this agent, did this human agent solve the problem successfully? Can we use that information in the future to reduce how often we have to hand over to a human agent? Yeah. So currently, as I mentioned, we have a bit of a feedback form after each four ticket that gives us a thumbs up, thumbs down type feedback of did this solve your problem? And then, um, kind of rating, um, most people don't fill that out. So we have a very limited number of tickets that we actually have, um, feedback for in kind of the big scheme of things. Um, but we can definitely use that as a kind of way to anticipate other questions or, um, identify resolutions that didn't go to plan and kind of adapt the playbooks based on that. Yeah, I think Also like down the road for the RCA or when we start to replace the specialized agent research with ai, there's gonna be a problem of like, first of all, you need to know, you'll have to have like a judge and then kind of like, well, that DLM says this was the root cause, but like a human reviewed this and said, well, that's not the, the right, like root cause. So we need like kind of a, a knowledge kind of graph or reasoning behind it if it's like something complicated. So if it's like just, oh, my, my shipment, my shipment was delayed or something, that's easy. But like, if you need to like have some reasoning behind it and you need to imitate like the human reasoning in this part, you'll need actually to have beside the knowledge base, kind of like the logic flow, how like, oh, I should check that. And if that, like, you know, does it make sense? Then you go there and you go there. So I think that that part is gonna be like much more than just a rag. So it's gonna have like, you have to have like goal sets and you have to optimize the model, uh, based on like the, the human, uh, kind of like source of truth that you have, which you don't have, and you're gonna spend more time on it. So I think that's, that's why like, I think that part is gonna be like the, the most complicated one. Just to follow up there, how would this knowledge base be different than the knowledge base of policies and rule books that we already have for the agents? That's a good question. That's why like, when, when you talk to, uh, a specialized agent Yeah. And you read through the policy and then they say, well, yeah, I think that doesn't apply here, let me get back to you. That's exactly why. Right? Like usually like the, when you have like a printout of the policy, it's not, it's not covering everything. It's not covering the edge cases. And the problem with this is like a human can say, well, let me get back to you mm-hmm. Was probably the AI is not gonna say that. It's gonna say, oh, I have everything I can help you. Right? But then that is not gonna be the right answer. Right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So that is something we see a lot around, um, knowledge being in agents' heads. Um, the one thing to note is that new human agents will have the same problem because they won't have that knowledge yet. They, that comes with experience. And the way that we kind of advise people to solve for that is whenever an agent has to go around a rule book, they should document it and add it to the kind of list of edge cases that they have in that rule book so that the next agent who has the same problem solves it in the same way. If that makes sense. Um, and that's, again, as much an LM problem as a human problem, I think for the LLM to kind of avoid giving you random answers. Um, it's a fairly, it's, it's the standard kind of problem of teaching the model, how to say, I don't know if it doesn't have the information. So it's kind of a hallucination kind of mitigation problem where you're saying, okay, here's your policy. This is kind of the rule book that you need to think about, but if that specific edge case is not covered there, you should escalate to a human, like, don't think about it. Um, like don't try to solve it if you don't have the, the right information there. So the one thing like know, proactive, like know the agents, like no, use this known knowledge base and generate like known workday responses rather than like know the customer come to like, know our platform. So the platform can reach out to the customer and notify, like, know something. Yep. So that kind of things known probably like, Yeah, it comes into the like proactive approach that we were about earlier as well around like, how do we anticipate the problem? Or like even show them the orders that they have active, just ask them to choose what is the problematic one. For example, I think every, everything goes to understanding each and every customer query. So, uh, a little curious, have you thought about, uh, uh, you know, customer segmentation, which region they belong to? And if, if it's this region, do they get more returns compared what? Compared to more some other categories? Do you have that data you had to build it? We don't have that data, but it's a good, um, point around like how we can think about segmentation a little bit better. And that can go both in terms of the types of requests that we're guessing, but also in terms of languages that we need to support because we don't have that data either in terms of like, how many languages do we get or do we need? Um, is are the languages that we already support enough or not? So things like that could also help. So good point around like building more data sets. One more thing I was thinking was, uh, is this a high value transactions regarding which the query is there versus, um, is this a customer with more frequent, uh, requests? So these are all different other categories also where you may have to do data attribution. Yeah, a hundred percent. Yeah. We don't have that, but it's a good point around gathering more data. Cool. Just doing a quick time check. Awesome. I think we have 10 more minutes. Any other kind of thoughts, ideas, final thoughts, ideas before we wrap up? No. Wants to be the last one. Nice. The personal personalization of responses to the customer. I think that is the key that makes, uh, eventually the ratings go a high Yeah. For the organization. Yeah. Yeah, I like that. Um, when we talk to customers, personalization is always top of mind and I think it's becoming more and more of a, an interesting topic because everyone can build a, you know, generalized support agent, but the more personal it is, the more, the better the customer experience is gonna be. So I think personalization is definitely top of mind, making sure you have all the information needed from that customer to, to help them, um, in the best way. Cool. So just to go through what we did, uh, we identified the opportunities to, um, in this use case, and again, you you did a, a wonderful job, identify a lot more opportunities than I did here. Um, I wanna go through these main ones. So first we have the triage agent, which you've already mentioned. We can do, we can ask AI to kind of identify the user intent. Why is this, um, what is the problem, what is the right category to, to kind of go in? The next one is the specialist, um, agent research, which is more complex. So higher complexity, uh, takes more time to deliver, but it can also provide higher value, um, for the specific, um, problem. So teaching and giving a specialist agent access to the knowledge base and the support, um, policies required to actually solve that problem is gonna be, um, high on the list. And then finally the RCA and feedback, which funnily enough, neither this group brought up, uh, independently nor other group in London did. Um, so it's something that it seems like enterprises are not doing as much as they could, but this is actually the easiest entry point into your customer service solution because it's the lowest risk piece in the entire system. It's not customer facing. You are just summarizing the ticket, you're summarizing what happened, and you're asking the model to give you a reason, um, of what could have gone wrong for the customer to have that problem. Um, and if you do the RCA well, you can actually copy that and feed it back into your triage because what the RCA does, it takes the entire conversation, tries to identify the specific bucket it went to, and then writes this more detailed summary. But that bucket categorization can actually be taken in and then put into the agent triage in the beginning, um, as well, which is kind of your initial entry point to this solution almost. And if we're looking about, um, at how to kind of categorize these, um, this is a fairly kind of high effort, um, problem, especially if we're looking at the kind of specialized automated agent piece, but it's also very high value and most of these are high value because they have customer impact and whatever can be multiplied to all of your users is gonna have compound, um, value there. So the first one, the triage automation is probably kind of the easiest ish one to build. Um, and then the, one of the good values, one of those Izzy win wins that we were talking about in the beginning, we have the RCA analysis, which again, um, it's one of the easy wins that you can actually start to then expand to triage. And then finally, probably the last one is start to tackle, um, bucket by bucket, your specialized agents, um, starting with the highest volume one. Um, we're having these conversations around like what percentage is refund, what percentage is return, and so on. So like, start with your highest hit rate, just so, just because that's gonna give you the best kind of impact, um, for the specific solution that you have. Um, and it's gonna generate a good pattern on how to scale up to the next one and the next one and the next one. Um, any thoughts, objections of this view should be sooner The three, just everything today. Yeah, a hundred percent. So the RCA should be here, uh, trying to kind of get that data and categorize it then one, let's say two months-ish. Uh, and then that's in the six to 12 months for sure. But yeah, no, a hundred percent. That's fast. Good job. Yeah. Any other objections or thoughts or reflections on this? Anything surprising? Yeah, please. Uh, hi folks. I'm Patrick Hun. I'm one of the solutions architects on the Strat team and I work with, uh, several of the customers here today. I just wanted to double down on this r like the place to start for customer support being RCA. Um, there's a couple things that come from this that I, I'm gonna talk generically about my customer base. Um, often, uh, you know, what you see with customer support today, especially voices, you'll enter into some my kind of IVR system. You'll make an utterance billing, you know, uh, service issue, et cetera, and it will route you down to eventually to a customer service agent most likely. And it's, you know, 60 to 80% of the time. And then when you talk to that agent, they'll figure out what's really going on. They ask you 10 million questions, they determine that it's actually not a, you know, a billing issue, it's a feature issue on your plan, et cetera, et cetera. And, and they make the adjustments. And that ends up becoming at the root cause of this billing intent. And when you start with RCA, what you get is really kind of the utterances that lead to those and, you know, those proper analysis, proper solutions. And that data is incredibly valuable and it is not being surfaced well today from the existing systems just because of the limitations of those systems. So I can't say enough, if you start with RCA, your customer support system will be developed, um, in a much better fashion then if you leave it to the end where most people end up leaving it, which is why it doesn't get raised often conversations. Any questions on that? I mean, again, I I would, I would love to explore this if there's, um, you're, but yeah, Really, Um, one thought I had about why it's getting neglected is if the agents are being stretched thin and once they finish a call, they must jump onto the next call. They don't have proper feedback to actually say like, here's why we resolved wrong. They have the phone's ringing again. Okay, so this actually raises an even better point. Uh, and it's absolutely true. You're not getting good RCA today because your agents are too busy, they're stretched thin. One of the things we should be thinking about with ai, and this is just one of my mantras I like to use with my customer base, is where can I save, in this case agent's time, any tool or automation that I can like, take away the mundane from these folks, frees them up to put their energy into better places. So yes, giving the automation on the RCA gives them time back, which they get to then reapply and maybe raise the quality of FAQs, raise the quality of playbooks, raise the quality of training. We want to give time back to these folks. So starting with them absolutely becomes a really easy win. You can easily quantify it, you can start to show, you know, kind of, um, quick wins with low hanging fruit. So it's a actually a very in sense. Any other thoughts? Excellent question. Thank Cool. Awesome. Um, so wanted to, uh, practical exercise, right? Um, wanted to give, uh, a bit of an overview of what happened today. So we thought about, uh, we had a user question. We had a kind of case study from a functional company, uh, thinking about kind of how to tackle their customer service. We try to scope the solutions to understand the problem they were facing with a lot of questions. Then we, um, started looking at their architecture diagram and finding, identifying the opportunities. And now what you would have to do normally I wouldn't ask you, I'm not gonna ask you to do that today, but what you would have to do that normally is go in and design an architecture diagram of what this solution is actually gonna look like in the end. So why are we actually gonna build, given all the information that we've all collected here, um, what would that system that we saw actually turn, um, into if we used ai? But to wrap up, um, this first section, um, a few things to kind of keep in mind as you're developing these solutions. So first of all, try to make sure you take the time needed to actually understand the problem. Don't jump to conclusions very fast. Don't make assumptions that you're actually not sure if they're true or not. Talk to your business users. They know best what they're struggling with, where they're spending more time. And that's how you can get the most insightful points there. Second, um, try to identify the most impactful opportunities here. Um, you can possibly build everything all at once, so make sure you kind of prioritize and where it really matters most. We'll learn about RCA today. So have a think about how you could apply this to your customer service to kind of actually improve, um, the knowledge base that you have and the data that you have as well. And finally, um, draw an architecture diagram of what the system would actually look like in production. So what do we actually need to build, um, to create a system that is accurate, that we're comfortable to put into production in front of users? Um, and that's also manageable to build because you all in this room will probably have to build it. So it needs to, uh, you need to make it easy for yourself to actually get there. Cool. And with that, uh, happy to answer any other questions. Uh, if there are none, happy to give you a 15 minute break, but I'll pause to see if there are any questions. So when you work with the multiple likeno customers, so one of the things like non, we're seeing for the enterprise perspective, enabling like know the, uh, a agent or like non capabilities, the enterprise platform is not actually, for example, like non, uh, some of the source still like not so old non legacy systems. So have you seen that kind of like non real problem when you talk to multiple customers? So, so just to make sure I understand how, um, the enterprise platform that we have or that kind of users, normally users, Yeah. So that's a bit of an issue, uh, that we don't have a full control over. So the kind of customer service piece, um, normally stands with the customer and what we can do is advice on how to kind of keep that knowledge base in a good shape so that it makes it easier for you to add AI on top of it. Now we are like platform agnostic and we'll try to kind of give you advice to connect with whatever you have. You don't need to think about changing providers or changing the way you're kind of sharing that system. But if you have a way to kind of surface the right information, some APIs or some kind of vector database that you can use, um, for easier searches, that's gonna make the process a lot easier. I dunno if that answered the question. Yeah. Cool. Hi. So I come from a BI background and lot of talks about AI for bi. I know we can solve a lot of automation problems, but then there are people who wanna do bi for example, Hey, gimme my top 10 customers, gimme a 10 for my inventory, uh, uh, stock optimization options and stuff. Where do you see AI for BI in this whole solutioning where AI already has done a lot of the work earlier? Yeah, so that's gonna be more on the data analysis piece, right? Of other, when you're gathering all of that data that we talked about through RCA and so on, you want to be able to analyze it and show the dashboards, right? That is just that, that shouldn't change because you have your databases, you can consume it in any platform that you have in BI or so on. Um, it's just a matter of like understanding what are the key metrics for you and why are you actually, um, looking when you're looking for success. So what does success mean for you, right? Is it kind of user activity? Is it revenue? Is it um, like reducing the return tickets, for example from a customer? Like what does success mean? And then gathering that specific data and then showcasing it in a BI space, um, should be kind of the same process as you're doing today. So we've been talking about like, uh, the chat, uh, voice and, and then we categorize with different months. But like at the end, I don't see the same timing, like doing a real time voice and doing a chat. And uh, and also like, uh, when we talk about like, uh, a vector database, if we'll like be doing voice to voice, how we do the sentiment, do you split the problems or do you do always, uh, voice to text and then we'll figure it out when you do voice to voice? Yeah, voice is hard. I'm gonna start with that. Um, voice is hard because the model's intelligence in voice has traditionally been lower than what we've seen in text. Um, so there are a few ways to go around it. Normally we recommend starting with chat because that's the kind of the bias volume entry point. If that's different from you for you, then um, we can think about it in a different way. But for chat, it's a lot easier to kind of build this with text, understand what your, the right data is to put in your knowledge base. And then once you're happy, you already have this blueprint of a solution and then the addition of voice on top of that is gonna make things a little bit easier because you just need to figure out, okay, how do I need to modify this system to work with voice rather than how do I build this entire system plus, plus voice on top? Um, so I think starting with chat or uh, starting with text is the one thing I would do. Um, in addition, there's a whole other chapter around voice architectures and how you can set up your voice agent to be better in more complex situations. Um, there is something that we call, um, the kind of chained approach. Um, meaning you have three different models involved, um, which is gonna be less than ideal because it's gonna be quite slow. So you have a transcription model that, um, transcribes what I'm saying than a language model that takes what I said goes through the system and then gives back a response and then a, a text tope model that generates the user response. It took me a long time to explain it. It also takes a long time to actually respond. Um, if you choose to do that, you can reuse everything here in the middle part. So you don't need to kind of change much, it's just a matter of like how fast you can respond to that user. But we also have the real time approach, which means you have one API call one, um, with the real time API that can both um, understand sort of listen and speak to the customer. And that's a lot faster, a lot more natural and that's what people would normally go for today. Now the problem with that is that the intelligence is a little bit lower and like speaking about this, we need a voice module because this is a long conversation. Um, but if you have that, you can have these um, architecture where you have a general speech agent in the beginning that whenever it hears a specialized question, it can actually hand off to a specialized agent in the background. And that can be a text agent that's gonna be a lot more natural because you have the kind of agent talking to you, it's called the responder thinker architecture. You have a responder that is the kind of dialogue you would have. And then whenever it needs to make a call separately it would say, oh, please bear with me while I look for an answer. Which is what a human would say as well. And then sends this back to, um, a text model with all the information it has text model does its thing, brings out the response, and then the responder says, okay, I have the information for you, you need to do this, this, and that. And that's kind of the preferred. But in this model you're not doing, uh, speech to text, text to speech. So it's really just a responder if it was like another agent. Exactly, Yes. It's a completely separate agent that would do everything here, um, give your, uh, response back. And the responder is just a kind of person talking, um, who's being fed information. Um, as it goes, The boys, the voice agent will like send a text, the other will do the text and we can reuse all the architecture from Exactly Per, yeah, please. So I have several customers that have done, uh, speech to speech customer support solution. So I want to add a couple things. So this, what tale's layout laid out is a great way to take exactly what you've created in chat and be able to leverage it for voice. It will come with some downsides around latency. Yeah, so for instance, even in the thinker responder model, what you're doing is you're setting up a catchall tool that says, any question I get, go send it to another model and get, you know, so effectively send it to your cascaded approach that you've created for chat that will introduce maybe a couple seconds of latency and it won't feel like natural conversation. The way to actually implement speech or voice, if you like in customer support is to go directly to our speech toe model. But here's the caveat, and I do recommend you start with chat before thinking about voice. But the translation is not direct. You're not gonna take the direct answers you get on chat and use them for voice. And the reason is you've got a lot of data density with chat. You can provide back pictures, you can provide back robust explanations and in conversation and voice you may be talking about two to three sentences. So you've gotta get down to kind of the root issue before you start then building up and answering the user's questions. And you've gotta do it in a very conversational manner. So here's the deal. If you're successful in chat, you can borrow for voice, but the focus really I'm gonna tell you right now, is gonna be largely on the golden examples, which will then lead you to a whole new set of conversational golden examples. Okay? For voice que customers ask this question, I direct them in this manner. And then secondly, the APIs. So everything you create for chat today hopefully is lean and not very noisy. That definitely can be used for voice as well, but when you create that agent architecture for voice, I guarantee you it will look very different from chat. Although you can borrow from the learnings. Again, that's my short answer, knowing that you guys need a module, I'd love to help with that one. Yeah. Oh yeah. Uh, I think we had a question there before you go. Sorry. Uh, yeah, I, I'm actually curious just in this current workflow, uh, once the solution is deployed, where would actually be a good place to plug in evals? Because I'm curious, of course during development you're gonna check your kind of solution quite often, but once it's deployed, um, I mean besides the traditional kind of asking customers for feedback, do we take some sample set and maybe LM as a judge is a solution where there's some better ideas out there. So the next module is gonna go a lot deeper into evals. Um, but the short answer is everywhere. You need to have evals at every step of the pipeline. If you have a triage agent, you need to evaluate that to make sure it's working independently. Same for specialized agents, same for the RCA and you always need to go back to these evals whenever you're making a change. You need to make sure that you're hitting your accuracy targets in terms of what evals would look like. I won't spoil it. I'll let Rob go through it in a second, but there are a few different things that you can consider when you're setting it up. Uh, we had voice questions here. Yeah, uh, Yeah, I agree with, um, I would say I understand most of the things said and agree with most of the points we made. However, I have one data point I wanna be straightforward that I'm not sure I fully grasp, which is the, the voice model is less intelligent chat model. Is that because voice model optimized for the latency so you have to give the answer quickly or is that, uh, something else? So it um, so what I have observed is, um, is that there is, if it is a human, maybe we speak, we are so fast that when we write, we take time to think through things. Is that that, does that apply to the same, uh, for that statement? Yeah, so my understanding of this is, um, it is not because uh, the model is optimized to respond fast. It is because of the training data quality that we have for voice. Um, there is a lot more textual data that is high quality, um, publicly available online that our text models can be trained on and can kind of make these, um, understandings and links, uh, in the neural network that allows them to have higher intelligence and better instruc instruction following. Whereas for voice, our teams are actively struggling to find the high quality data points that they can put into the training of the model before it can actually reach that intelligence. And we actually had a big jump between our previous real-time model, which was in preview and the GA model, which is closing that gap quite significantly between um, the chat and the voice. Do I have a follow up question for that then? Uh, if this is a real time training data differently, so the model is less intelligent compared to well trained with more model. So if we do the a SR to TTS to LM to S TT and things like that, would that be, uh, would that have same in uh, have a better in intelligence in that in that regard? Yeah, A hundred percent. That's gonna be higher quality of output because the a SR model is gonna be able to transcribe the words that you're saying, the same text model is gonna be able to respond, and then the text to speech model is just simply kind of reading out the words without having the intelligence or the reasoning capabilities to do that. So, um, overall the short answer is yes, that's gonna be higher intelligent way to do that. Yeah, and I, I would just, I would just add a couple points. Taylor's nailed it. Again, I think the thing to think about here is if model intelligence is your number one priority and you can tolerate latency, the stitched model will provide benefits. But I think those benefits closing on the gap on real time now is closer to 10, 20% ish. The other thing that the real, I think like issue with real time today is our context window where it's tiny, it's like 30 2K and you cannot stuff it with all the context necessarily for broad based conversations. So you end up having to bake it, break it down into very, I'll call it specialized agents to be able to address issues. That to me is what we've translated a large portion of our viewpoint on a model intelligence around. So that, that, that constraint definitely makes it challenging for real time. But agreed with like everything else that's been stated so far. Yeah. Uh, I'll just go, so I think, uh, I heard about the text, uh, being a more simpler problem to solve than relatively the, uh, you know, voice and other things. But I also was thinking would you have a AB testing kind of scenario where as soon as you get into solutioning this for the customer, you actually create a parallel pipeline and then you start seeing a percentage of traffic and then start experimenting your solution. Maybe you go with text first, which is chat first and then audio, then later other mechanism. But how, what do you think about it? Yeah, this is gonna be something to do with your risk adversity as a com as a company. Um, normally people would stay on the kind of safe side, especially in the kind of large enterprise section segment when it comes to releasing new features. Meaning that they will test and test and test until they're a hundred percent comfortable to actually release it. We encourage people to ship as fast as possible, which is very different to that approach. Um, I think the safest way to start testing things is to put, um, these little nuggets in copilot mode, meaning you have an agent next to the assistant that's gonna help them find the answer and um, find the solution and the agent is then responsible to give you feedback of like, yes, this is correct. No, this is not correct. And that's really helpful to kind of get real insights from real customer questions on how your solution's doing. Um, and Klarna as an example, who's launched their customer service a while back has actually done this really well. They used to have, um, a mandatory button for their human agents. So they, they released a copilot solution. The copilot would give the, the human agent an answer, and what the human would was able to do is either fully accept or fully reject the answer they were not able to kind of tweak or slightly modify because that is the type of yes or no answer or feedback that you really need to be able to progress to production. Um, and that's the safest way because it's not user facing. You still have human in the loop, um, that should get you comfortable to actually, um, moving to AB tests that's, uh, customer facing. So Basically I understand you are going to, you know, bring in the feedback process right away. Yeah. Uh, so and then that would be in a window of two months, six months, whenever, one year, whatever it is. Right? And then that's you're collecting a, you know, helper agent or co-pilot agent or feedbacks everywhere is going help you build a better solution. Exactly. Yeah. Uh, uh, going back to the, the voice models, uh, you mentioned that they're less intelligent or less accurate because of the training. Yeah. Right. Um, so then how is the SR more accurate? Like if you chain it, how is it that uh, ASR models perform better? It's a different model architecture, so they're trained to do a different task. It's a more specialized task. So it is more in the kind of traditional ML world rather than LLM world. Um, I wouldn't be able to go into full detail on how they're built to be honest. Um, but it is, I just know the architecture data they're trained on is a little different because you of speech example with their text transcription for the model to kind of understand how to do that action rather than the model linking the words and the meaning and kind of understanding how to think about the, the concepts of the world, which is what an LLM does. I dunno if that was a satisfying answer. I dunno if anyone else can help me more on how as r is built, but Yeah, no, I'm, i I outside of my realm as well, I will just say that the stitched model, I mean you think about the components, they're very focused. Yeah. Speech to text, text inference text and the speech again. And I think because those are separated out and they're very highly specialized modules if you like, or you know, um, models that you're able to get that like kind of raise and intelligence versus real time does inference actually on the audio, there is no step where it takes it to text and then brings it back to speech. Yeah, exactly. So one thing we have noticed, uh, with real is there is no observability. Like you do not know what is the input user asking what is, and uh, that's why we architecture convert question into text and then use that particular pipeline, how we're gonna handle those kind of issues from observ d perspective on that End. Okay. So just so I understand the question, make sure I understand the question is you're saying with real time, because you're going speech to speech, it lacks visibility? Yep. Okay. So one of the things to understand about, uh, real time is that we take the user's input, which is audio, and we provide transcription of that. So you do have, we happen to do it through an one, you know, one of our, um, uh, speech to text models. In this case a four oh transcribe, let's say is one of the options. Mm-hmm. And so you have the audio or the, uh, the text transcription, uh, you also have the model's response providing a transcript with that as well. So you do have, you can compare those. Now there's maybe like I'll say nuances in those, uh, that might be different than what the user has said, but for evaluation purposes it's, you know, it's excellent and we, we leverage those in, in the customers at least that I work with. So you do have more visibility than you think in that sense. One last question because we're already highly over time, we can continue the conversation during the break as well, but please, Uh, is this on? Yeah, yeah. Uh, this was just a quick question. You mentioned the 32, um, thousand context one. Oh, for the, um, real time. Now that's speech tokens, 32,000, like audio tokens. How does that compare to like text tokens? Is that kind of roughly equivalent in terms of thinking about how much space you have? Uh, sorry. No, those tokens are text tokens. So that includes the system prompt, it includes tools, it includes any context that you wanna inject. Uh, and then it leaves a little headroom for the actual processing, um, that the model has to do. So what what quickly happens is 30 2K drops down to, I forget, like 28 k. And then for the system prompt itself, we have a hard limit of 16 K. So, so when you talk about, like for instance, just the system prompt and you wanna be able to create a brand, right? You want this individual or this voice that represents your company to act a certain way. As you can imagine that 16 K gets filled up very quickly. So that's the limitations that I'm referring to. Okay, thanks. 10 minutes. Right. Cool. Thank you so, so much for all the questions. Um, we've been in the same seats for a while now, so it's time for a 10 minute break and then we'll be back with the first actual hands-on lab, which is evals, which is gonna be Rob. So 10 minutes we'll be back. We'll put some morning chill vibes, playlist on the background. But yeah, thanks so much.
