# AI Techniques (Production): Designing Reliable Agent Architectures

<!-- vimeo: 1145774649 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Um, cool. So we have a lot of agents that you guys have been building and have built. Um, what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna walk you through what we think an agent is, um, how we're thinking about our agent platform, and how we're trying to make building agents a little bit easier for all of you, because I'm convinced that everyone here who builds an agent has struggled with one or two of the capabilities that they have. Um, we're gonna go through a few more examples of how we built an Agentic workflow with one of our customers. Uh, and finally, you're gonna be off to the races with the next lab. Um, again, challenging and guided part, we encourage you to start, challenge yourself, go challenging. And then, if that's not possible, go back to guided, um, and we'll also be here to help, uh, in any way. But, um, first of all, in 2023, um, quick look back, we released ChatGPT, and that was a, a really interesting moment for us, because suddenly everyone had access to information, had access to, um, an assistant who was basically able to answer any question really, really fast. So, it was a really, um, pivotal moment for us on thinking how we're, you know, interacting with the world, interacting with information, um, and so on. Now, in 2025, we think we're having a similar moment, but 2025 is what we call the Year of Agents. We tried to make it stick. It didn't stick, but still trying. Um, so 2025 is the Year of Agents because we're seeing, um, these models actually start to solve problems independently, um, without the user's input being actually needed, um, and this is what we call agents. So, I know all of you have probably a very different definition of what an agent is. Um, this is what we think it is, and just wanted to level set everyone on what I'm talking about when I'm talking about agents. So first, these are systems that can solve complex tasks independently without needing a human in the loop. And they have a few different components. They have a model. So this is something that, uh, you know, your base model from any provider. It can be GPT-5 or 1, whatever, Perplex Claude, Gemini, and so on. Um, but this is kind of the main, um, piece that is gonna a- um, help you, um, resolve the task. Once you set the model, we have a workflow or a set of instructions, um, which is what the model, the agent should actually be doing in all the, in order to solve that task. So, this is your system prompt. This is kind of what you're telling the model it should be doing. Next, we have tools. Models are great, but they don't have all the information we need all the time, so we need to be able to give them access to any external tools that we may have, be it in different knowledge bases or certain APIs that they can actually call, um, independently. And finally, we have guardrails, and these are your safety systems. These are, um, what the model, the instructions of, that the model should not be doing. So, don't, um, answer if the specific question is not, um, in this problem space. If someone's asking me for a cookie recipe and I'm Amex, for example, I should not be answering that. Um, if something goes wrong, please do not, um, answer the user, because it can have reputational concerns. Um, I had a customer call at some point with an AI engineer, and her passion was actually testing out these models to see if she could get them to do things for her. Um, she was impressed in how little people used to do guardrails. This is like two years ago almost now. Um, things have changed. Now, um, there are a lot fewer embarrassing stories on the internet of what AI agents have been doing. We're not selling, you know, cars at $1 anymore. We're not, uh, doing any of that crazy thing, and this is because of guardrails. Um, now, looking a little bit about, uh, what an agent may look like in the agent's SDK spec, how many of you have seen this? Okay, a few bunch. So, um, we have an agent. An agent has a name. This is, you know, Sparky or the dungeon, um, master agent that we talked about. We have a model. Uh, this is gonna be the main, um, engine that's gonna answer the question. Your instructions, your tools, um, and we have this weird thing called handoffs here. This is basically who the agent can interact to, who the agent can call, what expert it can, um, pass that task onto in order to be able to get more expert help and like solve more complex tasks. Handoff is what we call kind of call out collaboration between different agents and how to make them work together to, to use that, um, to solve that complex task. In this case, we have a booking an- agent and the refund agent. Um, so my triage can either, uh, go to either one to solve the problem. And as I said, building agents is really hard. Um, there are a lot of things to keep in mind when you're trying to build agents, and these are a few of them. First of all, um, you need to manage state. You need to make sure you understand where you are in the conversation, what information your user gave you, remember all of that, so that you give relevant responses and that you don't have a goldfish memory agent who needs to get all the information again and again, because it just keeps forgetting, um, throughout. Um, next, it needs to be goal-oriented. Um, as we chatted before, um, models can't do everything, and they're a lot better do, doing specific things if you break them down for them. So, to Rob's example before with the kind of chemistry example, if you break a task down into very small, specialized pieces, each of those agents is gonna take on one of those specialized pieces before you can bring them all together to actually solve the complex task.You need tools and orchestration, so again, you need to make sure that the agent has access to any external knowledge or any external tooling that you may need in order to actually solve the task for you. Um, and you need to give it, um, autonomy and control, so make sure that these agents can autonomously pull these tools, have the access, the security requirements to actually, um, perform these actions, um, independently without needing a human in the loop. Um, but you need to make sure that you have observability and you know what's going on because you don't want these agents to go crazy. Um, so you need to make sure that you see everything that's happening end to end, from user input all the way to model output to the user, how long it takes, what tools were called, what, um, the model said at every step. And finally, safety and security is top of mind, especially in Europe, um, so you know, keeping guardrails, keeping, um, your system safe, um, and in, in place with the kind of attacks and safety considerations that you have all the time is really important. And all of this, uh, you need to keep in mind at one time as you're using... as you're building the agents. Yes, please? Yes, so orchestration is when you're asking several different agents to interact with each other, um, so orchestration means, um, handing off the task from one general agent to one specialized agent. It's the kind of communication in the network to collaborate and, uh, solve the specific task at hand. Welcome home, baby. Missed you on the days where I needed rest. For miles and miles only. Well, fuck, I'm going crazy. I'm trapped inside a daydream. I'm waking up without you. Um, so kind of curious as you're thinking about security and safety and we're dealing with agents who are dealing with PII or other sensitive data. How do you effectively have an observability system that doesn't have that data in it? Like, it seems like our observability systems for agents really require us to see a lot of tool interaction, see the prompt that inputs/outputs, um, and that really is, um... you know, might have sensitive data that we couldn't have in our system. That is very interesting. So we offer observability, and I'm gonna get into second, um, in... to that. Um, we have observability tools for people who are comfortable storing that data today. Um, for people who are in, like, zero data requirements or zero data restrictions, um, organization, we... they normally have these observability tools on their side, because if you have, say, a local environment where you can store that information and kind of track that information, maybe like on prem somewhere, that's... that makes it a little safer and, um, a lot... makes this organization a lot more comfortable to actually have those systems in place. Obviously, that's not possible all the time, but that would be the kind of, you know, 180 degree different solution, um, that we n- we normally see people do. Can't get enough. I bet you think that you're in love. I want to drill into that just a little bit more, just because, you know, let's say you're doing customer support stuff. People are gonna ask about their product shipments back and forth, your Acme Corp solution. Um, as soon as you start having agents that are taking human free form text unstructured stuff, they're gonna talk with the agent, and then the agent's gonna know... the, the LLM agent's going to be like, "Oh, why do you need to return this?" "Oh, because I've got a broken foot." Now you've got PHI. Yep. You've got, like, health information stored in there, and you were thinking this is just a customer support bot, so you don't have control over what the humans are gonna say. They're gonna say, "Here's my credit card information," and they type it in there, and then suddenly you've got that in your logs. Yeah. You can't control that. How do you... What do you do with that? So, a lot of this comes to the security, um, and safety systems that our customers have in place, and normally, um, we recommend you have a PII scraper before you send anything to the model, just to make sure you don't put any card information into the model. Um, we don't have a PII scraper yet, but I'm gonna show you in a second, we do have a guardrail that checks for PII before it sends to the model. So you can at least understand if what the human's inputting there is sensitive or not. Um, TBD on where this is gonna go, but uh, ideally, having a PII scraper before is gonna, is gonna help a lot. Yeah? ... observability tooling, like before the prompts are sent into observability, that you could do some type of check before that data gets in there. It seems like we just send everything to the observability tool, um, but it'd be nice to have a hook in there before it gets in that system, 'cause sometimes it's acceptable to send that through an LM, but we don't want it sitting long term, stored in an unobservability platform. So again, it will depend on the observability tool that you're using and what you're comfortable with. Um, if you're using the OpenAI one, you can have the PI scraper before this, um, user input even touches our platform and just have it have the observability from that point onwards. Um, if you're using a third party, I don't really know, um, but normally what I see is people are more comfortable to store data in their systems. So if you have like a local observability tool or, um, on prem solution, that's gonna be more acceptable with the specific data retention requirements that you have on your end, um, just to kind of get a sense of what's happening. So for example, a company may be comfortable to retain user data for one day. If it does have PII, you can have that observability for one day and then delete the, um, data immediately afterwards, and that's more acceptable than-... sending that to the model. Um, so it depends on where your kind of risk tolerance to that is. Yeah. So you have defined... While y- while you're defining agent, if I heard correctly, you said agent is something which will not require human in the loop. Yes. When will an agent require a human? Very good, um, question. Normally, when there's a risky action that needs taking. Um, so when, say, you're dealing with a refund and, um, if payments are something that's sensitive for you, um, then you may want a human agent to just double-check to see if the action that the model, um, made is acceptable to then proceed. Um, so we have this concept of a user input block, and that user input can either be a customer user input or an agent user input. Um, that's a kind of agent user input. You can also think about, say, you have a travel planner and you have a customer service bot on top of that. Your user comes to you and says, "Oh, actually I wanna cancel my vacation." The user... Or the human in the loop piece is gonna be, "Okay, can you confirm that this is the correct action that you wanna take?" Because again, it's very risky. So the agent needs human confirmation that that is the correct vacation that you want to cancel. Um, and that would be, you know, your user in the loop making that final decision without the, the agent. Can I put a question? Yeah. This is an interesting one. So when we define rules and orchestration, you said, "An agent can call other agents." There's a possibility that the calling agent may not be able to determine a human in loop condition, but a agent which is called, which is a next level agent, it might be able to determine. But where is that we need to put the human in the loop? I don't know, I'm just making up here, right? Uh, is there any standard practices or patterns? Do you have any guidance? Where should be the human in the loop, right? Because now when you enter into a nested condition and then you figure out human in the loop is determined at the second or third layer, coming back and then the reasoning and then the traceback might be difficult. I don't know, I'm just bringing up the point, right? We need some guidance or... Yeah. So I would only think about human in the loop for really risky use cases. Something that an agent can confidently do on its own, it should do on its own. And, uh, as long as it hits your accuracy targets, your evals, you should be comfortable to put that in production. The risky use cases where there's a high risk of churn or, um, you know, reputational damage or something like that, you should have a human in the loop at that specific layer. If you go back to the kind of customer service example, um, the way we see this happen in production is we have a tier zero triage agent that is choosing the user intent. We have a tier one automation, which is the easy tickets, the, the low-risk tickets that the agent can just take independently. And we have a tier two support agent, which is basically a co-pilot, which is a fully human in the loop solution for the riskiest cases. So the model's gonna be there for the agent, for the human to help them, um, surface the right information, but the actions are gonna be taken by the human. And then at that point, once you resolve the case, you can just display the results to the user. You don't necessarily go, need to go back to tier zero, um, with a response. So the... You're, you're going deep, but you don't necessarily need to come back after that. Um, and that may make it a lot easier to kind of make an action upon user input. Does that clarify? It makes sense. Maybe the context, uh, needs to be still retained. Uh, I mean, uh, what, what I was, uh, thinking was a guidance on how to implement or when to imple-... No, no, let's take example of the first use case which we discussed, right? The customer calling in and... So there is lot of feedback and results which... And that was the number one thing which you wanted to do. You want us, uh, to analyze, take that as the step one, right? So maybe there we also need to make a learning of in- in which all scenarios human in the loop needs to come into picture. Apart from analysis of all the, you know, chat ca- uh, calls or, you know, audio and all, all the other interactions. Um, I, I don't know. I'm just asking you which, which is the right step, what is the right step when to implement human in the loop into the system? I s-... I would implement human in the loop in the system when I don't tru- fully trust my agents with their actions. Um, now to break that down, what does it mean, trust? What does it mean, action? What does it mean, um, you know, evaluate or accuracy? A refund is a- Yeah. ... important use case because it deals with financials, right? It ch- changes the state of the system, right? Yeah. So that's a, that's... (laughs) Sorry. What I'm trying to say is that's a business question rather than an AI-specific question. It's, what matters for your business? What is risky for your business? If that is the case, then you implement a, a human in the loop. If you're confident that the agent can take that independently, then you don't need a human in the loop. There, there's... I, I would say in that use case, it's a great example of that is just the dollar value, right? Under $20, business can be comfortable with refunds. You can just watch the, you know, BI on that and make sure that it's, you know, tracking well in terms of a loss, win-loss ratio. If it's over $20, escalation. Yeah. Once you've ran through the process of approval and ensured it meets the guidelines, et cetera. But th- that's an over-simplistic version of that, again. Mm-hmm. Hi there. They are writing down documentation right now for all the human in the loop use cases, so I was looking for some guidance. Yeah. It's a matter of what the business is comfortable with. I actually have a slide in the production, uh, session tomorrow when it's hopefully gonna clarify, like, what your accuracy threshold should be given the business value that a use case, um, actually gives you. So say if a useful case wins you $10, a, um, mistake in the agent loses you, you know, $20, and then there's a very small chance of turn that costs you, say, $1000, what is the break-even point that will still, um, have you, um, you know, net zero at the end? And then anything above that in terms of accuracy, it means you're actually net positive in terms of business value that you're getting. So, making that type of calculation, to, like, Patrick's point, on like, what is the break-even mark? Is it $20? Is it $30? What exactly are you comfortable with in terms of business value should be the right calculation to- to make when you're thinking about, like, this human-in-the-loop solution. So you get back a 100% accurate result every time. Yeah, exactly. You don't need to train Yes. I have a slide on that in, like, two or three minutes. (laughs) Cool. Um, so what we're trying to do is to create a platform that should hopefully simplify, um, the process of building these agents. So we're trying to give you the tools that allow you to build these agents faster, to, um, give you the guardrails that you can put in place, to give you the comfort of actually going to production a little bit faster. Um, we're also trying to integrate different capabilities into one system, so things like, um, bringing orchestrations, bringing tools, bringing, um, different file retrievals or web search, um, components, bringing guardrails, uh, and so on together under one system so you can have visibility over everything that's happening. Um, and also allow you to iterate, and tho- that goes back to evals, and that goes back to, um, understanding what your agent is being, uh, is doing today so that you can actually actively improve, uh, and iterate on its structure until you're actually hitting those, um, evaluation criteria that you're looking for. And we're hoping with the platform to actually make this a lot easier and a lot faster. So, a few of the core components that you're gonna find, um, under different kind of shapes or forms in the platform are user interfaces. So we're looking into adding simple front ends and making those available, um, for large enterprises so that your front end teams won't need to worry about how to implement a chat component 1000 times, but rather focusing on the user experience as it's actually trying to- interacting with the chat. So we recently released Chat Kit. Has anyone played around with it? A few, nice. Um, which allows you to embed a chat widget or window in your application, and then customize widgets so that customers can get, like, a unique experience to your specific product, um, or platform. Um, and if you finish the labs early today and tomorrow, I strongly, strongly encourage you to give it a go. Um, it's really fun. You can actually build, um, widgets with natural language. You don't need to know React or any, uh, other front end language. It's- it's quite magical to actually see it happen. It's great. I don't know any React, and I played around with it. Um, cool. Uh, the next one is APIs. So this is how your agents actually interact with the model. Um, historically we've had the chat completions API. Now we have the responses API, which is, um, optimized for speed, um, and for reasoning, meaning that responses gives you a way to, um, go back, look back at the model's reasoning, and give you better, more insightful answers because the model already has the context that it came up with. Um, we have orchestration through the agent's SDK. Uh, this is, again, meant to help, uh, these agents interact and collaborate on a really complex problem through handoffs, so through passing on the relevant information from one to another. Um, observability, we talked a little bit about this already, but, um, with the agent's SDK, this is built in, um, through traces by default. You can go into the platform UI and then you can see how long a specific task, um, took, what tools were used, what the assistant actually generated and so on from user input all the way to- to output. And finally, um, we have optimization, and we'll keep on working on- on all of these things, but we have our evals platform. So as I mentioned, after every lab today we're gonna go back to evals and we're gonna make sure that we evaluate the solution and we're moving in the right direction with it. So seeing, visualizing how you're doing against evals is always, um, super, super important when you're iterating on these. Um, onto our customer example. Um, we have been working with Uber for a while now, and they have a wonderful customer service agent. Um, you have the kind of chat here on the left, and then, um, this is the behind the scenes almost of what's happening. So first, we have a customer inbound request. This is about your refund. Um, and what's happening behind the scenes is first we have a guardrail check. So we wanna make sure that the user's intent is genuine, there's no malicious intent there. Um, and then if that message passes the guardrail, we're gonna carry on. If it doesn't, we just, um, show a polite res- refusal message to the user to avoid going deeper into that conversation.Um, once we go through guardrails, our agent is making a plan. We have a different agent using a different model, as you can see, from 4o mini to 4o, and we're starting to making a plan, to make a plan. What do we need to know from the user in order to sort of solve this request? What do we need to have access to in terms of tools? And what is the kind of action plan? Almost a check, a list of checkboxes that the model needs to tick in order to, um, execute everything. Um, once we make the plan, we start executing the plan, so we start, um, calling different tools, CRMs, ERPs, and so on, just to kind of get an understanding of what the order, um, is that u- the user's referring to and so on. Um, finally, we're looking at the decision agent. You're gonna see here it's using O3 Mini, so we're going into a reasoning model now. We're looking at, um, kind of more depth and more understanding of the nuances of the policies, of the specific case that we're looking at, um, and asking a smarter model to make a decision here. Um, then we're, uh, calling the tools if the decision is to actually generate or grant the refund. We need to go into the, um, API that does so, and finally, give, um, the user a confirmation that this has been, um, made on our end, um, and asking if they need any further help. But this is what kind of an agentic flow looks like compared to what a customer sees in the front end. Now, these are not the only agents that they have, so it happens that here they use the kind of refund agent just to make sure that, um, this is correct on their end. They have different agents that are specialized in their own kind of side of the business that the planner would kind of triage to in their network. Yeah. So when you decide, uh, what model to use for different area, and, uh, when you first redefine set of APIs- Okay. ... so it's better to use the mini model compared to whenever we are creating a plan to basically identify what agents to be used on their side? What is general guidance on this side of it? So, the general guidance is evals, evals, evals, and then finding the right balance between your accuracy, so what you're comfortable with, your latency, so how long it takes them all to actually respond, and your cost, how much it costs per, for a per request. So if you're thinking about, you know, a simple task, probably going for less intelligence is gonna be enough, and that's also gonna give you speed and, um, kind of cheap, um, response times from the... responses from the model. If you require something more in-depth, like a specific policy reader, um, going and using some reasoning, um, there is gonna be helpful, because reasoning helps the model get to a better conclusion by generating this kind of consistent chain of thought in the background, um, and really thinking through the specific case that it has at hand, rather than just spitting out the first thing that comes to mind. Right? Okay. So if you need... if you have something that's less well-scoped, that's, uh, needs a little bit of investigation almost, then reasoning, um, will help there. If you have something very bespoke, um, that's laid out step by step, a non-reasoning model will probably be good enough there. So, it's about finding the balance between these three, uh, levers that you have. And is memory going to share across all the agents within the workflow? Is what, sorry? Memory? Yes. So, um, with Responses API, we have something that we call a, um, previous response ID, which is gonna help you track the conversation- Mm-hmm. ... um, with that specific model. Um, so you can keep track of the history, um, of the entire conversation. We also have released this new concept of a conversation. Okay. So if you tag, um, the kind of requests with the same conversation, the system's gonna know that these messages are actually all related to, uh, whatever was said before. Now, if you have different models and different agents, you can do that. You can pass this, um, as context, or through the context in a handoff. You can say, "Here's what I have so far, now go figure it out." Um, and then the model will have all the information it needs from the previous conversation to kind of go... Yeah. I think that's where the context engineering comes a bit challenging. So we are singing. Yeah. ... want to basically apply context engineering on the entire AI workflow, and have every agent maintain its own context history, just pass along the information needed to another agent, take my agenda, then- Sure. ... is there a concept within the OpenAI to basically store that information and pass along those? Like, there are certain information which is local to all the agents, they can pass? Or there is some information that I do not want passed, pointed to another agent? So, I don't think we have a global system prompt or global set of information that all agents has- have access to. But you can pass the relevant information through the context variable. So that's gonna be kind of, um, your knowledge of the situation so far, and you can pass that as an... it's literally called context, from one agent to another. Um, and that's gonna help you with the handoff. Do you think there is an open decay? So when you tell agent with multiple conversation information, going into the entire workflow, the token start decaying and you will lose the context? Within the same conversation? Yeah. With the... So I think when I'm using LangChain, they have like a conversation space 25. You can change it to 50 or 100, but total number of context window that you guys created, like-And then it becomes so huge, you start getting the wrong results. Yeah. Yeah. So we don't currently have h- um, memory management to that extent. Um, we do have guidelines around like how you can do it on your end. Um, there are a few ways to think about it. There is the summarization piece. You can summarize the entire conversation and just pass that so that you kind of shrink the context length. Um, there's also the specific cutoff. So you basically gradually forget messages as they get older and older in the conversation. That's another option depending on what you want to pay attention to. Um, or there's, um, um, the, um... sorry, the kind of storage, the predefined storage that you can have, so almost like a long-term memory piece, where within the conversation you define a few parameters that you always want to keep in mind and remember, um, and you pre-fill those with every turn. Um, the name escapes me, but uh, you're basically defining a schema of the memory and updating it gradually as you go. Yeah. I think in context in doing concept, they basically say, okay, store the entire, uh, plan in a different file and then allow that particular file to be available in the agent across the board so you do not lose the plan while executing it. Yeah. So if you have this, um, setup with a planner agent, yeah, that also works, just like keeping the plan and then just passing the plan every time. Um, the one thing that GPT-5 is really good at is actually keeping track of the plan, the, the action list that it has. Um, if you kinda watch GPT-5 reason over really complex task, it actually does the checkboxes as well saying, "Oh, I have three steps in my plan. I need to do this, this, and this." And as it's reasoning, you can see how it's ticking all the boxes until it actually gives you, um, the reasoning. So for planning, GPT-5 is also a good, good option of model to kind of keep track of where you are. Add an image. (laughs) Cool. Um, so what to think about when we're thinking about agents. Um, first is workflow planning, making sure that we can tackle multi-step tasks well, consistently. Uh, we have a path for each of those kind of, um, independent use cases that you might see. Um, you may do that with a single agent if the plan is fairly simple and the agent, um, accurately checks all those boxes I mentioned independently, but you can also have multi-agent setup, um, that will hand off the specific task. Once it's done, say, the first half of the plan, it hands it off to the next one, um, to, to actually perform the remaining set of tasks. Um, then we need to think about handoffs. So normally in a kind of multi-agent network, we see, um, this general setup where you have a central triage agent that will identify the user intent, will identify where the task actually needs to go, and you will have a set of different specialized agents that will, um, look at only one side of the problem, but they will be experts in that part of the problem. So if you're looking a refund, your refund expert will have access to all of the refund policies, but it's not gonna know anything about, say, cancellations or delivery issues or anything like that. So making sure you're keeping th- your specialists kind of, um, contained to, to the one task that they're really good at. Um, parallel execution is another quite important one. Um, this helps with latency optimization. So if you have a task that has two or three different steps that can be done in parallel, they're not linked to, um, each other in any way, you should trigger those in parallel. And suddenly instead of having three model calls one after the other, you'd have three parallel calls and your time has decreased to the longest one rather than having a sum of all of them. Um, and then once every, um, one of your agents has actually returned the output, you can have an accumulator or a kind of conclusion agent at the end that puts all of the different information together and generates the response to the user. Um, fallback, which is, uh, what I promised a slide on. Uh, this is really important and, um, if one tool or agent fails, you s- should think about a fallback mechanism, you should think about a retry plan. Um, now this al- will also depend on the use case that you're looking for, right? So if you have, um, something like an error-like response, you do simple error handling like you would do in traditional software engineering. If the agent is not actually able to process your response for any reason, you can just try again. So having retries is something that we look, um, at all the time, especially for, you know, 500s or, um, unknown errors as well. Um, these happen, making sure that you have that kind of loop to, uh, retry every time is gonna be helpful. And then if it fails consistently, having a backup always helps. So let's say you're normally using your GPT-4.1 model, but there's some outage somewhere in the world that makes that unavailable, having a fallback on, say, 4.1 mini, um, is gonna help you give your user a response. It may not be as good, um, but it is better than an error message, um, up front. So having that sort of set- setup where you're, um, foreseeing these errors can be helpful. I don't know if that answered... Um, and then we have the evaluator optimizer pattern, where, um, which kind of talks to the idea of live evaluations, where you have an evaluator that...... can critique the response from another agent. This is particularly helpful in high-risk use cases, um, where you want to make sure that you catch hallucinations before they happen. Um, and having normally a, kind of, your normal model answer, but then an evaluator that uses, say, more reasoning or tries to just double-check the work of your normal agent, can help reduce those hallucinations significantly. If the, uh, evaluator catches that hallucination, you can ask the, um, initial model to try again, um, and that's kind of another fallback mechanism to make sure that you are providing the relevant responses to the model. I like the way you move. Yes. Ooh, ooh. Ooh, ooh. I really like the way you ... body turning. Work it. Yeah. Put it on me, my hands on your waist. Baby, you can come over my place. Yeah. Exactly. So, um, here you, you see the first agent using, uses four one mini, which is a non-reasoning model. If it... Every time it, it generates an output, it goes through the oracle, uh, or evaluator agent, which is using oh four mini. This is a reasoning model that can actually think deeper of, um, the answer and understand if the answer is actually correct, it's a hallucination, um, or where it got that information from. This can be really simple. This can give you, like, a one-token output to reduce the latency, saying, "Correct" or "No." Um, if it's giving you a "No," then you can go back to the agent, ask it to do it again, go through the oracle again, and so on until you're happy with the answer. Got it. Um, an idea that I was playing around with was, if the oracle agent had access to, like, a feedback database that is generated- Yes. ... it can actually identify, oh, yeah, we, we have tried this before and it worked or it didn't work, as, like, feedback that it's given back to the main model. Yeah. But when we did that, what we noticed was it kept going in circles. (laughs) And we were trying to see, well, what are mechanisms? So I know in one of the different frameworks, they had, like, a max retry kind of concept. Um, is there something like that in agent, uh, Agents SDK? You'd have to implement it yourself, sadly. There's nothing by default that, um, that we have, but it is a good pattern of only allowing it to try, say, three times or five times, or whatever you're comfortable with, and if it just fails all the time, respond with, "I'm sorry, I can't comfortably give you this information," or, like, assume the information is not there, and that's just generation of hallucinations, um, consistently from the model. So, it is a good pattern, um, to follow. One thing you can do is if you see patterns like that, go back into your data, um, and try to understand where and why that happened. So, like, try to identify the gaps that you have in the systems and try to re-implement it, um, or iterate it in your solution. Now, to use the feedback from the oracle, that means generating more tokens, so it's gonna be slower. If you're comfortable with that, that's really good insight. But a lot of the customers with this pattern are struggling with latency, so only having a "Yes" or "No" token here is generally what they're going for, because they can't comfortably wait for the entire response to be generated before moving on, um, if that makes sense. Yeah, it does. Um, sorry, maybe I should clarify a little bit. The feedback is not from the oracle, but, like, the feedback has access to, like, a vector DB? Mm-hmm. That has, like, "Oh, this was the problem before, and this is the solution that we found out." So, that kind of, uh ... Makes sense. ... the feedback from that initial use case. Yeah, so like a RAG system that could look into the feedback from... Yeah, that makes sense. Why are there not? A- agent one communicating to the oracle one. Yeah. So it's going through, like, no central, like, agent registry or, like, normally set it in the... known, uh, agent SDK itself, like nodes, uh, communicating? Yeah, so they're all parts of your Agents SDK setup, your network of agents. Um, and then you can kind of decide which agent has ac- which agent can talk to which other agents, so you can decide these network connections between the agents that you have, so that, you know, only agent one has access to the oracle, but if you had an agent two, that may not need it, so it doesn't have to go through the oracle as well. So you can kind of define these patterns of communication between the agents with the Agents SDK through the handoff parameter. Got it. So it's a, there is no A2A protocol kind of things here. Cool. Okay. Best practices, and then I'll let you go, um, through the lab. So, a few things to keep in mind as you're developing agents. First of all, um, evals, evals, evals. Uh, make sure that you build a good, um, evaluation model and you have evaluation-driven development to make sure that, um, your agents are doing the right thing. And now, the other advice that we normally have is start, um, big with big ambitions for your agents. So assume it can do a lot, and then let your evals tell you otherwise. Um, if you're struggling to hit that accuracy, then it's time to break it down into several steps, and that's gonna help you kind of increase that accuracy at the cost of latency and cost. We're gonna talk about that balance tomorrow a little bit more in depth. But the idea is start with big ambitions and then kind of narrow it down as you go. Um, next is pattern composition. So, think about planning, tool use, um, memory, and routing as completely different components so that you can, um, reuse or, um, you know, pick up and move into a different agent. So, they're modular components in the same way as we mean in software engineering. Modular components, you can pick them up, reuse them somewhere else. Um, you're all parts of, uh, part of large enterprises.There are a lot of teams working on AI. If you build something good, share it with the others, share the joy, um, and the easiest way to do it is through modular components. Um, make sure you have the clear role boundaries for each agent, as I mentioned. Um, you should treat your agents as experts, especially if you've realized that they can't do everything, as I said before. So make sure that each individual agent has a very clearly defined set of rules that they need to follow every time. Um, look at, um, external state first. So try to make the storage and the access of content, of memory, of user data easily accessible, and make sure you do that context engineering so that your agent had ac- have access to the external information that they need to make a decision fast, um, without having a lot of back and forth with the user. So assume this user doesn't want to type in order details, they don't want to type in anything really, so the more information you have on them, the better the experience is actually gonna be. Um, think about defensive tool calling. Um, don't assume the model's gonna do j- a, a good job calling your external APIs. Make sure you're actually testing them, um, and making sure, make sure that you're kind of overseeing why they're actually making these decisions. With GPT-5, we have something that we call tool preambles, which is basically the model's way to share the reasoning of why it decided to call those tools, and those tool preambles actually do wonders, because it makes the model think deeper about the action before actually making the action. And it's also easier for you to debug, um, afterwards, in case the tool was called, uh, that was called was, um, was incorrect. And finally, um, full instrumentation. Make sure you log everything. Um, observability is key here. Make sure you understand every little part of the system, what works well, what doesn't work well, um, and where you actually need to improve for your system to actually reach the, um, the accuracy that you need. With that, um, off to the lab. We have, again, a guided and challenged lab. This is what we're gonna do for the rest of today until happy hour. Um, we'll see how you guys are doing, but at some point, if, um, towards the end of the day, um, I'll also be very happy to share a glimpse of the visual agent builder that we have, the agent's SDK and chat kit, show y- show you how it works. And then, um, if you get a chance, if you finish the labs early, uh, you should play around with them, um, to get a feel for them. But before that, we have, uh, guided and challenge again, um, and definitely encourage you all to try challenge first before going to guided, uh, but it's hopefully gonna run you through how to build your own agent, um, how to think about hand-offs, how to think about guardrails. Um, and yeah, give you some hands-on time. Yeah, that's pretty much it. Back to chill vibes. (laughs) (music plays)
