# AI Techniques (Production): Fine-Tuning Strategy & Tradeoffs

<!-- vimeo: 1145774842 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

... share some learnings. So I guess these are the three things that we keep coming back to again and again, which is for most workloads, for most agents, it comes down to accuracy, latency, cost. Uh, if I was going to take maybe the best example of an agent right now, I'd say, is coding agents, because I've seen Claude code being used. People use Cursor, people use Codex. And actually when you think about the models you do select for these coding agents, you can c- you can see these trade-offs so clearly. So the bigger the model, uh, higher latency, higher cost, but generally higher accuracy. And, uh, fine-tuning can help in two dimensions here, I'd say. The first is simple, which is you take a model such as GPT-4.1 (sighs) . ... wake and intelligent, and you could use supervised fine-tuning to, to make it cheaper, to make it faster, and without compromising too much accuracy. However, what's also interesting is, with the kind of new, uh, reinforcement learning paradigms emerging over the years, I would say that kind of actually addresses very much accuracy if you want to use it in a platform. Because really if you're doing reinforcement learning with the OpenAI API, you're kind of actually taking the model and you're saying, "What is the, what is the problem the model cannot address right now? That's all for me, my business." So that might be a really hard code problem, it might be a really hard size problem. And how do I get this to actually start tackling this problem? So Mateo, um, kind of covered this a bit earlier, but I'm going to go through it again, sorry, slide. Because I used to work at a previous company, um, I won't name, but they used to have this graph as completely linear. So, uh, they would think that the best practice is either go from engineering, you do RAG, you do tools, you end up inevitably at fine-tuning. But this is just definitely not the case. Uh, in reality, it's just super messy, here's why. Because you have a problem to solve. And given the current set of requirements, the current way you answer that problem, you'll start with content engineering, you'll start adding tools. And then inevitably you'll discover new things about that problem as you're iterating. And the cool thing about, uh, fine-tuning is, I would say it's the hardest part of this compared to just tweaking your agent, but it's the part that can deliver much better p- uh, performance improvements when it comes to cost, latency, and accuracy. So, I guess to cover this kind of quadrant then, um, fine-tuning, I guess these, these summarize it quite nicely, which is you're essentially adding main expertise to your model. Um, I think the best example of these is, like, domains, I know there's some folks from insurance, so healthcare is a good example where you have huge data sets that are siloed, that are not public. Um, it can be super valuable to fine-tune there because you'd have essentially a domain-specific language. Um, I guess, like, a good example is, um, when you actually look at the frequency of the, of the words w- in these different domains. Um, I remember when I used to work in fine-tuning for, uh, biomedical language models. Some of the most common words would be, uh, lipoma, lymphoma, um, cancer types. And these would be super uncommon in general domain. So it was really high value to actually fine-tune on that distinct vocabulary. In addition, there's preference data. So I think a good example is on those kind of, uh, customer, consumer applications, you could have your, um, basically the personality and the tone of the agent is so important. And when you capture those user signals around what, uh, tone do they prefer, that can be a really good example of using those pairs to actually fine-tune a model's tone and its behavior. And then finally, distillation. So again, just, uh, taking a model and fine-tuning a smaller, faster model, um, if latency and cost are really important. So then these are basically the three offerings we have. So SFT, uh, DPO, and RFT. So supervised fine-tuning, this is kind of like the paradigm probably people are most familiar with. So this is simply you're trying to improve the model, um, at producing, like, a desired output, and you're trying to handle edge cases in specific ways, uh, generate content in specific styles and structures. And this is what our lab will cover, actually. So I guess, like, a, a good example might be let's say you have a specific output format you need your model to follow. Um, SFT can be really great because you can give, uh, exactly the output you require as your ground truth, and you can optimize for that. Inference fine-tuning, so this is the kind of example I was giving where you have these, uh, essentially pairs. You have a, uh, a good example and a bad example, and you're teaching the model, um, particularly if it's case-specific. If it's around tone, if it's around personality, uh, what's the best example it should be to follow? And then finally, reinforcement fine-tuning. So reinforcing fine-tuning is actually much harder than it looks to you. Um, essentially the key here is that you need to have really solid graders. So graders, thinking back to evals re- which we talked about earlier, you're essentially giving the model a reward signal, and this reward it needs to maximize. So, I would say you need to have a really consistent definition and yeah, minimal variation across prompts is key. And having this automated evaluation. And again, back to coding agents, the best example here would be if you have an agent and you've inputted your prompt, what would your graders be?... uh, you'd have a grader to check, when it generates code, does it compile? You would have graders to check, given some unit tests for this code generation, did the unit test pass correctly? And these, the graders would be essentially deterministic, so you could have them as, uh, essentially compilation checks and qu- sort of, Python scripts to pass tests. However, some really good examples of additional graders to, to bear in mind are actually, how long does it take to complete the task? So you want to kind of, uh, make sure that it's being really efficient with its reasoning budget. In addition, also, uh, personality. Is it being helpful? Is it being explained? Is it explaining everything and making sure it's also on track? So yeah, I decided to mix things up a little bit just 'cause I was running a reinforcement learning job in the background. Um, and to give a little background on that, this is like, why. Um, and you can see this in a moment as well if you want to, to play around in the lab too. Um, I'm sure we can extend it. But essentially, the cool thing here is like, on the right we have the reward function, so in green for the train data set. And you can see that it's so varied because essentially our batch size is four, and so it's super varied depending on which data points are being sampled. Whereas the purple line is the validation data set. And again, we have the reasoning tokens as in orange at the bottom, which are actually fairly constant. And in this task here, um, and just emphasizing again, it's like, being always to try it last, after optimizing. Uh, the task here is like, given a complex molecular representation of chemistry, um, how do we compare different candidates for which is optimal to experiment? And specifically, we broke this down into an agent with different sub-tasks. So the first agent is predicting the properties of this molecule, and then you have a final agent to aggregate its properties to make a decision. So in this specific example, we're just training a model. Uh, actually there's some nice samples for us to develop from messages here. It's just like, given some smart representations, which is a representation of this molecule, uh, in natural language, um, how can we answer the following question, um, and respond with a numeric answer just to the paper? And yeah, this is, this is kind of quite early and I think we're getting like, a 30% improvement, just on the baseline. But essentially, uh, what the model's able to do is answer like, consistently faster as well. As well as ............................ Um, and I think, so I should remember the ground truth off the top of my head as well. Uh, I think it, with the ground truth was like 1.8, this example. But, um, essentially learning from its reasoning how it should analyze different molecules in that representation to come up with the correct, with the optimal answer. Um, I'll just pause here for a moment actually. Does like, this example kind of make sense? Does anyone have any questions or do they want to share examples of SFT, DPO, or RL use cases they're doing? Welcome. ... here... So the ground truth is, um, we actually use a Python grader for this, so I'll go back up in a moment. Uh, ch- The grader is Python. So, um, by default we have some chemistry libraries in RDKit, um, in our Python graders. So there's like a not... Uh, this is kind of like almost like a tutorial I'd say, so it's not a perfect, uh, prediction of the life felicity, but you can use RDKit to have an approximation. And so because the model is so poor initially, we're able to use RDKit as like a grader to get it much closer to the ground truth. But thanks. Hey, thanks. Thanks for this. Uh, just wanted to take a step back. So between this one and the previous, uh, the, uh, PFT, uh, fine tuning, can you elaborate a bit more on why you'd use one versus the other? The SFT versus- Not SFT. SFT, the, the, the, the- DPO. DPO, that's right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course. Um, so I think DPO essentially it's, it's, uh, it's supervised fine-tuning as well, but it's essentially pairwise. So if you're familiar with contrastive learning at all, I know I was talking about, uh, clip with some folks earlier as well. You can essentially think about this as you have, uh, in your data point, you always have two examples. One is optimal example what the model should do, and one is non-optimal. And so a really good example would be, let's say you have your customer service chat bot and you've collected some signals from the user, and sometimes they give it thumbs up, sometimes they give it thumbs down. Of course, that's too noisy to use initially for fine-tuning. But with, after some expert curation, you could imagine, uh, for the same question or for a similar question, you could pair those examples as well. One of the examples is, "Uh, yeah, sure. I can retrieve from the knowledge base. Here's the answer to your question." And one of them is, "Uh, just can't do this right now, leave me alone." Uh, and obviously you want to optimize the first one, so that would be, uh, DPA. Does that make sense, Ashley? Seems like both... I mean, so how do you see reward model... I mean, what's, what's the reward angle on the first one? Is there a notion of reward at all in the, in the ground truth? No notion of reward, yeah, exactly. So, um, it's, it's literally just good example, bad example, and you pair them sort of way. Um, so kind of, kind of simpler because you reward... If you want it to complex, you could have like multiple graders. Like the coding example is you have the grader for compilation checks, unit tests, speed of execution, exception listing. So you would weight those appropriately, like 10% of this grader, 20% of that grader, 10% to this grader. Thank you. ............................ No worries, I can keep going. Um, just hopefully this, like, example started to, like, ground stuff a little bit.And then the final part as well, actually, someone who remem- I think I was talking to, uh, yourself about this, vision fine-tuning as well. So, vision fine-tuning is actually, um ... You can kind of think about this as, like, having a, uh, image input and then you have a text output. So, vision fine-tuning you can do with GPT-4o, um, and it has the ability to interpret and respond to both image and text inputs. So you can tailor this to do specific tasks. I think an example we have at the moment is around, uh, example, if you had a delivery service and you wanted to better, uh, optimize the maps for how the lanes are laid out and for, uh, traffic, et cetera. So you can actually have models getting deeper understanding of this data with vision fine-tuning. Oh, yeah, this is it actually. So, um, this example was of Grab building smarter maps for, um, Southeast Asia with GPT-4o, with vision fine-tuning. So in this case, uh, yeah, upgrading mapping data with ride share and delivery services, um, and in this case, yeah, it was laying out speed and structure. So, um, although we can't fine-tune for image outputs, you could use, um, vision fine-tuning to basically, um, pro- produce any kind of text output that you can then grade. And then, yeah, the final part of this is model distillation. So model distillation, actually I've got a question. Does anyone try distillation? Good. Yeah. So, for those not familiar with it, this is basically w- you would use the supervised fine-tuning part of the OpenAI API. In this case, you'd have your, uh, stored completions. For each- well, let's say you had GPT-4.1, and you've had some really high quality stored completions. And essentially, uh, with, uh, with, uh, SFT, you can do distillation here because you have the IT1 output and let's say GPT-4.1 mini just doesn't produce as rich, as high quality outputs. By using the outputs from the full models, the ground truth, it can learn to have more accurate behavior. And I think, like, there's a really nice intuition for this whi- which is like, uh, how does distillation actually work? 'Cause it, it's almost like hard to understand, like, how you could take these outputs from a smart model and basically train a smaller model that's, that's Yeah. ... is good. And a nice intuition for this is essentially when you're predicting these tokens, um, you're, you're not, uh, just like classifying the token, but the model outputs as well can have, uh, some kind of, like, richness to them. So if you were doing this under the hood as well, you'd have like a probability associated with each token, and that could kind of assign, uh, the intelli- the, the intelligent models, uh, the, like, probability of predicting that token. Yeah. Is there efficiency lost by only having the completions as opposed to having the, the whole logits of the model that you want to distill from? Yeah. I think the, you would have some loss in that, to be honest. Um, the, the full logits would be ideal, but it's still pretty, pretty performing. Yeah. And then, yeah, just I guess, like, finally, just around use case qualification. So, um, like, always like starting with prompt engineering and having that clear objective. Uh, so again, like, back to that chemistry example I was sharing, uh, before jumping into fine-tuning, we had to really carefully understand the problem. So, uh, in this case, we prompt engineered it so that the agent, uh, we found the limitation of the agent, um, which essentially was if you give it these complex chemical representations, it's just too much for in a single reasoning pass to predict all these properties of the molecule and make a decision around, like, the viability of doing experiments on this molecule. So, in that case, we had this clear objective where we separated it out and we identified within the substages now of our system where, uh, where are we basically having, um, accuracy loss and where can we have these gains? Then finally, building this golden dataset. So taking these, um, in this case, it was these really tricky molecules and, um, grading it. Well, in this case, the grader is a bit, um, approximer because it's more like an example. I think in the real use case you'd actually take some domain experts in chemistry, run the experiments in the lab, and have, like, exact data. And then finally having, like, the robust evals to make sure that you have this good evaluation framework to make sure you're actually generalizing. So, actually that's it from me and, like, the previous labs- Okay. Question of that. Um, just before ... So you described distillation using supervised fine-tuning. Can we also, can we also do, uh, like, reinforce- reinforcement fine-tuning for this distillation? So if you use the supervisor as a grader and just say, "How do you think the previous one did?" Letting it kind of learn from that. Good question. I think the answer to that might be, like, caress your guess, but in reality is probably very non-optimal. It's probably quite expensive, I would say. Um, so I mean, but I've seen, like, folks discuss, like, technically you could also do pre-training with a reinforcement learning objective. But it's just so expensive to explore that solution space that you might as well just stick to SFT. Can you explain distillation again? Yeah. I did not get that. Yeah, of course. Um, so actually I'll ask you, what's your... Do you have any kind of chat text use cases? Um, text-based use case, yeah, like, you know, maybe w- the company has a set of policies, um, somebody asking like, "Okay, I want to do XYZ." Oh, "What are the policies applicable to XYZ?" That would make sense. So if I was going to make it a little bit, uh, forced to work with SFT, let's say you had some policies that were particularly complex and you required the model to output these in s- with a specific structure, uh, or like following some general guidelines on how they structured this to the user. And you found that, uh, GPT 4.1, because you need it to return these policies fast, really fast. It's, uh, returned these policies accurately, uh, and, um, that worked well for it. However, as you bring it into production, there are some issues here. The first is, is actually the latency is too slow. Users want their policies faster. It's also costing more. So then if you look at distillation, when we can take GPT 4.3, and you can try that out and you find it doesn't work quite as fast, because actually just that it, it's just not as up to speed. There's too many mistakes in the formatting. Then what we could do, is we could, uh, use GPT 4.1 and collect a high quality dataset of completions where it correctly structures and retrieves the policies, and we could use those completions to train 4.1 mini. So now you have your own 4.1 mini. Any other questions? If not, um, yeah, just like introducing that, um, this actually will focus on distillation too. Okay. So, uh, in this case, we have the full Python dataset. Um, so it will cover how to generate completions as well as writing them, yeah. And I will leave that to when we do, do a Q&amp;A afterwards. So, um, feel free to try out the free version versus the ƒ150 pro version. Just... I'm more than happy to answer, it's just fine. Um, and then what I meant from it is that there's, uh, it does take a little bit of time to run the job. But we'll have a little bit of a break in between to allow you to actually test out the two models. Uh, yeah, so thank you.
