# AI Techniques (Foundations): Introduction to Agentic Workflows

<!-- vimeo: 1105245234 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Let's dive in. I'm sure you're hearing this for the very first time or perhaps the thousandth time by now, that 2025 is the year of agents, right? Everyone is going from building large scale agentic workflows and how to leverage to the maximum of their potential. So before we dive deeper into the agent workflows and agents, SDK, let's talk about what really is an agent. An agent is an AI with a routine that guides its behavior, has access to tools to extend its capabilities and controls to validate it is doing the right thing. A routine can be thought of as the prompt that drives the agent. And a tool is essentially a combination of an API that provides a service and the business rules that define the interaction. So agents perform workflows on the user's behalf with a high degree of autonomy. For example, writing code, responding to a customer ticket, validate if expenses meet respective policies or even for preparing a sales meeting. So to achieve this, agents use AI models that do control how the workflow is executed, what steps are needed and in what order. It needs to know how to leverage tools such as APIs, UIs, other agents, as well as having guardrails or safety nets to achieve its goal. And these AI models decide when to stop self-correct and ask for human intervention. Now as our users are building these agents, what is already happening today is we are at OpenAI are able to automate 60% of our sales inbound traffic. So customers inbound requests come in through the chat interface, we have guardrails tool calling. We are able to decide on the right uh, tooling and the mechanism to invoke the right models and then execute the right functionality for the user. And these capabilities that we are leveraging with agent workflows with uh, automation aspects are aren't just visionary. We have already shipped products that use these tools which our customers are leveraging today. So with deep research for example, Chad, GPD can do work independently, right? Give it a prompt and it'll synthesize hundreds of online sources to create comprehensive PhD level reports for enterprises. This doesn't just unlock employee productivity, but it gives you access to deep detailed research on any topic within a few minutes. In an internal evaluation by experts across domains, deep research saved an average of four hours per complex task and it's only gonna grow better from there. The second major capability that we recently introduced is for AI to operate your computer just like you would. This means that operator can run processes across a long tail of tools and systems and there's no need for custom integrations or APIs. For enterprises, this unlocks the automation of workflows that previously required human intervention. So customers are already delegating mundane multi-step tasks to the operator. Some examples can be automating software automation testing and qa. So by having operators interact with web apps like a real user, you can give the task like clicking off buttons, filling out forms, and even flagging UI issues. Another use case that comes to mind is updating systems of record on behalf of the users without technical instructions or API connections. So it seems like operator is the first to enjoy working in Salesforce SFDC portal and users are calling it a hugely forward in AI driven task automation and we are literally just scratching the surface. Now, before we dive deeper into scale agent workflows, let's go through a quick overview of our open AI APIs and how we explore how we think of responses API as we walk along. Okay? So by now, uh, you are probably aware of chat completions API, uh, assistance API and batch API, right? And in this session we are gonna dive deeper into our most recent release, which is responses API, but we'll cover all of them in uh, some detail so that we are able to give you like the core pieces of differentiation and how our journey has taken place from chat completions all the way to responses. Okay, so talking about chat completions, this has been our simplest and more most customizable way of calling the models. So it's the simplest method of inputting messages into the model and receiving model generated messages as output. With chat completions, we support streaming structured outputs and function calling. I'm sure all of you have already tinkered with it and uh, used in one form of the other. And chat completions is stateless, which means it does not keep track of previous interactions. So what you send in one request is all the context the model has. Now talking about assistance API that was developed with the intention to build AI assistance that can leverage models to and the knowledge to do complex multi-step tasks. It does involve streaming. It has file search capability function, calling and even leveraging code interpreter tools. This assistance API was straight full. So it manages the conversation history for you, although based on the feedback that we received, there is quite a learning curve when you actually leverage assistance API. So it's relatively more difficult to implement and work with. And just note for everyone on the call that this will be deprecated in 2026. Now let's dive into responses API. So with responses, API that is the new API primitive, which is combining that simplicity of chat completions with tool use and function calling with only four lines of code, you are able to get started with responses. API, we have taken learnings from the past two years and built upon this responses API having the flexible foundation for building agent applications and it also has the capability to connect to multiple tools and model turns with a single API call. Now the responses API does combine combine that simplicity as I said of the chat completions API, right with the tool use capabilities of assistance API. So in terms of built in tools, we have web search, computer use and file search with metadata filtering, et cetera. And the built in tools are those that are integrated and managed within open AI's infrastructure. So the model can directly call these tools and get the results without requiring the developer to manage the execution. This is in contrast to function calling with developer defined tools where the actual function execution happens on the developer end. A point to note is responses. API can call multiple tools at the same time in a single API request, which makes it highly suitable for agents. And once we have an API calling tool, which now exists as as far as the post three 11 launch, you can now imagine giving a response access to multiple tools and having it go off and do things. For example, search the webform movie timings and call that video API to text the results. As I said, it's flexible state fullness where you can follow up requests and can use previous request IDs, right? So it's useful for multi-term conversations, evals and even fine tuning you can turn off storing responses with a parameter. So it also supports ZDR capability with responses API. You're also getting structured outputs essentially that you have function calling that uses strict mode by default and ensures structured outputs. Jason's schema response formats are also supported. There is easier streaming with semantic events which allows the users to both number one opt-in specific events they care about. And two, have a predefined sche upper event to integrate against at think mode and webhooks for long horizon tasks. So async mode will allow the developers to generate responses asynchronously or in batches and this would be useful for tasks that may take a longer time to complete as developers could use webhooks or polling to get results without maintaining an open connection. Okay, so as I said, responses API, you can easily leverage that. It's the fastest way to build complex workflow within your application. You have the capability for integrating tools and knowledge in very few lines of code. It's lightweight compared to assistance API and it allows tool with some tool usage with some predefined tools, retrievals, QA and web search. And you have an opt-in easy memory and state management capability. These are some of the supported tooling and parameters if you think in a holistic way, right? So with chat completions and responses, web search, file search, computer use are being supported. And then you also have like managed rag with support for multiple file types. Metadata filtering. We have custom re-ranking thresholds that is baked in where you can leverage responses API or assistance API. But you can see over here on this slide, it's very crucial to understand that responses. API goes all the way from web search to file search to computer use across that spectrum. So it really gives you the flexibility to extend your arms and then leverage responses API across a wide plethora of use cases. Now that we have covered responses, API coming to batch API as you know it's a straightforward way to run asynchronous requests with 50% cost reductions. Batch API works for most of our text and reasoning models. It has higher rate limits and a guaranteed response in 24 hours. The team is also working on reducing that response time for a different tier and then you will have more capabilities upcoming with that. Now this slide is to show you like a quick comparison of the three APIs and how to think about them along with the batch API, right? So we are covering chat completions assistance responses and batch API. As you can see, chat completions, which is the most simplest, easiest to implement, right? Although there is no memory or state management capability, uh, it's really great for existing use cases and simplicity. So we are not getting the customers to migrate to any new APIs because stat completions will continue to persist, although with assistance API it will be deprecated and there was support for tools and retrievals and support for state and memory management. But we did hear your feedback that it was relatively difficult to consume to implement in production and that's why responses API came into picture, right? So it's a good mix of the two where it's again simple and easy to implement. Just like chat completions, we have the support for tools and retrievals and easy memory management capability as well. So use cases which are using assistance API, uh, can easily be migrated and they should be migrated to responses. API as part of best practices and anywhere where you, where you're leveraging new use cases that require tools and retrievals responses, API will be the way to go. Here are some of the use cases where we are seeing uh, distribution of how chat completions responses and batch API comes into picture. So with chat completions, we have existing digital assistant campaign or marketing content generation and then existing coding assistance, right? So that's where chat completions API does shine continues to shine, right with responses. API we have internal launch chat bot, we have shopping assistance with web browsing capability. We have travel assistance with latest information. So if you want to connect to rag, even if you want to connect to external vector stores in that, in that case responses, API has the flexibility to integrate with let's say your Postgres or Pine Cone or other vector stores through function calling. So you can even build an internal knowledge management system with the internal vector store that we provide as file search or you can connect to your external vector stores and then batch API highly leveraged for use cases within when you are doing evals, uh, synthetic data generation or trying to generate weekly insights, be it in financial healthcare insurance domain. Now here's a glimpse of where responses API actually fits within an end-to-end chat interface. So on the front end side you'll see uh, the grade out portion, which is our chat interface over here. Um, we will be launching an embedable UI or a platform UI kit, which can help you and easily create those chat interfaces. And then it integrates with your agents platform. We'll, we'll talk about agents in a few minutes, but then we have, uh, agents which are running responses, API underneath. And then you have handoff between those specific agents, which are specialized in certain tasks as per your design, and then you have handoff between those agents. We also have something called tracing capabilities, which we'll talk about in a later end of slides. And then we also have that evals that we need to bring into picture to continuously refine and distill the model to ensure that the model is performing as per its original intent. Now you have seen the March updates. I'm gonna move myself over here. Cool. So you have seen the March updates where we have already released GB 4 0 4 0.5, oh 1, 0 3 mini, and many more models. Now if we go up the stack, you will see some of the latest updates that have been released. So as part of the agent backbone, um, we have the responses, API and the agents SDK. Then on top of that we have these tools and connectors essentially web search, file search and computer use. And to cover those LLM ops capabilities we have tracing and then evals and fine tuning, which completes that flywheel or in other words, completes that feedback loop for us to continue to iterate, refine, and polish as we walk along this LLM ops journey. And eventually we'll also have embedable UIs, which we will cover in the future sessions, where we will have the capability of embedable components, which which can be embedded into this application, more on the application interface, having that chat, that sign on capability and many more as we are, as we are entering into the entire stack, right? Alright, now let's do a quick walkthrough of how we can invoke responses API within our playground. So here I'm in the playground in my, in my respective organization and I want to leverage responses API over here. So on the top right you'll see a dropdown here where you can select now between chat completions and responses API. Now if I switch to chat completions, you'll see different set of, uh, model parameters here, like response format as text temperature tokens, et cetera. And if I switch to responses API, you'll see a slight change over here. Of course I can modify the temperature max tokens, top P and if I want to stroll the logs or not purely dependent on you, and we'll leverage some tooling over here. But before that, let's just create a simple system message and I'm gonna leverage this generate parameter over here, or in other words the generate function over here. And I'm asking the model to create or to generate a simple nice positive note and tone. And here we have like how we respond to the user queries in a natural positive tone and determine the appropriate tool to address the user's request. Right here we have like the output format, a bunch of steps to follow through. Now next thing we want to do is let's add some tool into it. So as I add on the hosted tool, like the web search tool, you'll see there's an optional parameter to even include the user's location or localize the web searching capability. So here we can add my particular location I California and and San Francisco. So we'll add those and we can select the search context size, which can control like how much context is received from the web and let's keep it medium for now. As a report parameter, we can add some additional functions as well. So we can simply add as part of this demo, we can add like get better and let's also add another uh, file search hosted to as well, right? So within file search, either I can directly upload that file or we can select a particular vector store. Now I've already created a vector vector store, so we'll go to my vector storage and select this sample vector store here. I simply uploaded like my California clean air receipt, which contains my payment that I made to the DMV as part of this clean air for my vehicle. And we'll add this vector ID into our tooling. And now let's see, how do we, uh, invoke the responses? API, by the way, you can also click on code over here and you'll simply get a very nice view of the, of the Python code or if you want to change it like curl no JS or json, but you really very easily get all the tooling, the reasons reasoning parameter if you want to change it, the text format and basically the entire piece of code that you can leverage inside, inside your, uh, I. Okay, now let's go ahead and start asking some questions with the model. Alright, so I'm gonna say, how's the weather today and sf And we're gonna see if it invokes the right tool. So here we got to know that it, it really invoke the correct uh, tool over here by fetching the location, which is San Francisco unit and faite and then it clicks that we can click on tab to generate that response. So we have a nice response created from the model and here we go. Today in San Francisco it's sunny with a temperature of 68 D Fahrenheit. So you know, we, we got to know that it is invoking the right due link based on the user's intent, the user's query and let's say I wanna switch gears to asking a question pertaining to my file search, right? So we wanna know if response responses API will be able to invoke the file search and get me the right response. Okay? So I'm gonna ask about what was, what was my uh, tax receipt bill and it's searching for the files which ensures that we are calling the right, uh, we are invoking the right information by calling the sample vector store when we passed on the vector id. So your tax receipt bill shows a DMV fee of $27, which is absolutely correct. And uh, if I wanna ask a slightly different question where we want the model to maybe search the web. So give me a list of five restaurants in my area where we are trying to localize that web search part of the hosted tool. Uh, according to the web now we know that it's searching the web, it's uh, fetching the top five notable hotels in the area. I have not been to any of them so I really wanna try them out, but this is able to invoke the web search tooling, fetch my location so I didn't have to feed that to the model. And then we are able to get some pretty good, hopefully good recommendations about having dining experiences in sf. Alright, so that really completes a quick demo of how you can invoke responses API within the playground and simply leverage the code over here within your application to build an end-to-end API stack. Now switching gears to agents, SGK. So when we think of our agents platform, right, these three points really come into picture, right? It needs to be a robust and lightweight orchestration framework for multi-agent workflows with agents with hands off, with handoffs and with card rails, right? So we have the orchestration layer which provides that control layer, all the capability where developers can define the guardrails, the safety nets, the tools, the core logic behind it. Then you have the optimization flywheel, which enables that tracing route we briefly talked about, which goes back to evaluations and then having this optimization flywheel for agents to perform better with more and more usage. And we also need to have a data persistence layer or having the capability to have an integrated data layer to run these applications which can easily manage that conversation state to vector stores and providing end-to-end user personalization and customization needs. So open eyes agent platform is that end-to-end solution for building your agents. We have heard from customers that building production ready agents has been challenging. It requires them to create and iterate on prompts and custom orchestration logic with limited visibility and that's where Open AI's agent platform really comes into picture to offer that end-to-end solution for these multi-agent workflows. So it's having that simplicity to enable the development of core agent logic, streamlining any kind of agent orchestration and making agent handoffs and tools easier with these agents. Uh, tooling, right? So you also have the integration aspect where you can easily integrate agents, the tooling, the orchestration capability and the tracing routes without the complexity of multiple APIs or external vendors and you can continuously iterate upon or improve upon the development of your lifecycle evals and then optimizing your entire workflow. Now some of the key things that we recently launched as part of agents SDK was uh, support for both theistic and LLM driven orchestrations. With this workflow it's really built on top of the learnings that we gained from swarm, which if you recall was an experimental framework in that same space. And some of the notable features include supporting uh, typed input outputs, uh, first class concept for guardrails, having agent handoffs, it can be configured to use a variety of models including external chat completions compatible models, right? And uh, there was a lot of feedback around the transparency of how we want to leverage the agent's SDK and the tooling around it. So there's a trace collection that's built in and we are overhauling our dashboard experience with new logs tab, which gives a single home for developers viewing their usage across code completions, across traces, across different uh, responses, uh, leveraging their responses API and within the dashboard, uh, with traces you can actually view a granular record of how an orchestration ran, basically covering which agents were called, what actions were invoked, what tools were leveraged. And developers can easily debug and optimize their workflows via the trace detail view. And within the agents' platform, some of the core components that we think about are the uh, user interface, right, which consists of that embedable customizable UIs and we will build upon that as we walk along in these partner webinar series. Then the responses, API, so there is agents, SDK is built upon responses, API which is really designed for these agentic applications considering the simplicity the state full and the ability to handle those context management, uh, tasks. So that's where agent SDK working with real responses API is really crucial. Then the orchestration capability, as I said so agents, SDK, it provides that robust lightweight orchestration framework for agents to interact with the observability capabilities, which has been really crucial for us to include automatic tracing and to log and inspect any kind of agentic workflow execution. And building upon that we have that continuous flywheel where we are able to distill the information to the specific models running underneath those agents and we enable an optimization flywheel using this combination of tracing evals and fine tuning. Now how do we extend the agent capabilities? Again, going back to responses, right? So we have those built in tools that we can leverage even within agents sdk. So we have web search capability, we have file search, computer use and the ability to have code interpreter which is coming soon. So web search capability as I said, it enables you to have uh, more grounded agents which are more up to date in terms of like fetching the information or results from the web. You can have file search which augments the agents with information from different files and have metadata filtering attached to it. Then computer use or operators to enable the agents to use applications without dedicated APIs and having the agents to run Python code for different calculations, scientific analysis and a lot more using code I inputter you can even build your or customize your own capabilities like integration with C-R-M-E-R-P systems, having your own knowledge management systems, et cetera. Then with tracing capabilities, we are providing the end-to-end transparency or end-to-end detailed visibility into agent workflow execution. It is properly baked into the agent's SGK for less development effort and in future we will integrate with evals and fine tuning for agent optimization as well. So with traces you are really getting a very detailed record of the complete orchestration run, capturing all the interactions, model calls, tool, invocations, handoffs, guardrails, and you can see on the right side where you have like a nice view of how the triage agent was invoked at what time and when it was able to enable or invoke the guardrails uh, responses. API was invoked and it uh, handed off to planning agent from planning agent to Salesforce agent and being able to handle this entire orchestration, you have complete visibility outta the box with our agents SDK in this dashboard. Now coming back to our interface around the agent's SDK workflow. So you can see where how, how the user can interact with the chat interface and you have tracing, you have multiple agents and handoff between those agents along with the evaluation capability and with agents SDK you are really enabling the right half of this portion where you are getting those tracing, oh you're getting that tracing capability, having that refund agent, return agent for this customer service scenario and then having this evaluations feedback loop to provide that distillation and provide that optimization layer that we really need to build upon. So this really showcases that with agents SD K, how each component really comes together and fits into an agent workflow. Now some of the external resources that we have already released are, you can look for pricing for file search, qa, web search and developer access tiers. There is enterprise agents narrative. So a lot of information is available for you to dive deeper into. Um, agents platform deck where you can dive deep on the API agents platform, learn more about observability elements, data flywheel and a lot more information. The new API doc is already available now so you have access to all the quick start guides, the sample apps for leveraging new APIs and tooling and we have an in-depth white paper for executives and technical decision makers which is already available. So this slide will have to be modified but overall you are getting all of these external resources available for you and to start leveraging responses API and agents SDK, right? So here we have a simple fast API application where we have defined a couple of agents here. One is the math tutor engine agent, which is specialized for math questions. The history tutor agent specialized for answering historical questions. We also have a homework guard read in place where the question if not relevant to any of the above, it'll trigger the guardrails to actually respond uh, to the user that you are diverting or basically apologizing to the user that it's not related to the pertinent context, right? And here we have defined the agent flow where we are asynchronously calling the triage agent and returning the final output. We will also display the flow data and eventually all of that you will be able to see within your graph, right? So with that, let's get started and blend this application. Okay, so this says started running and I'm gonna move here, refresh this page. There you go. Okay, so let's start with a simple question like who was the president of United States? Ideally should trigger the history tutor and there you go. Okay, so in this case we are getting the correct response and it's routing to the history tutor agent and we are able to see the overall flow from this flow table. At the same time we are also able to visualize how it actually initiated that flow from the user all the way to triage agent and history tutor generating the final response. If I may zoom in here. So here you're able to see the entire flow for how eventually that trigger happened and how it's transitioning from one agent to the other to provide the final response. Similarly, let's ask a question about who was the last PM of India and send this question back to the system. There you go. We got the final response and again it's routing to the history tutor and you can see the overall flow of execution for this particular question. Right now let's switch to maybe a math based question. How to compute the differential for X square? Straightforward question and hopefully the triage agent should be able to route to math tutor instead. Okay. Alright, so we have the response and in our, in this case we are able to see the instruction flow and how the triage agent is able to transfer to the math tutor. It's quite a response from the model hopefully correct. And then we are able to see like overall flow, right? So you have the user, you have the user, uh, asking the question, triage agent and then function call eventually to the math tutor, right? And now let's switch gears to asking an irrelevant question. Uh, say who? Who not a very straightforward question, right? So, okay, I'm sorry I'm not able to help you with that question and it does not meet our guidelines, right? So here you go. A simple very irrelevant question and then you have the guard who's being triggered and providing a response over here, right? So here you are easily able to see the entire flow execution. Similarly, if you wanna switch gears to asking something else who is Ironman? Let's go with that. Okay great. So as you can see the guarders is getting triggered so there is no overall execution flow. It's dropped at the right uh, at the right intersection and here we are able to see a nice visualization as indicated. Alright, discover the demo for agent flow visualization and how to leverage agents SGK for your use cases. Cheers. And today we are going to walk through a demo that showcases an AI concierge that can call multiple agents to assist with the user's travel planning. The main highlights you will see will be real-time API multi-agent interaction responses, API web search, API and computer using agents API. So let's drive right into it. Okay, so here you see that user interface where I am able to invoke this AI concierge but let's make this application whole, there you go. Where I will be able to monitor my conversations. And now let's go ahead with starting this flow. Hello there. Hello. How's it going? Going good actually you know I have a week off. Can you recommend me and destination? Absolutely. Are you looking for a relaxing beach getaway, an adventurous outdoor trip, or maybe a cultural city exploration? Um, Please check out the most talked about travel spot as of 2025. Now as you can see it's calling the web search agent. Sure as of 2025 some popular travel spots include reams France known for its food festival and champagne houses. Breia Italy offers a Basic. Okay great. Can you please create a detailed travel itinerary for Reams France And now it's switching to calling the itinerary agent. Great choice. Here's a detailed seven day itinerary for your trip to res. Day one, arrive check in at Hotel Azure and take a city stroll with dinner at a local bistro. Day two, enjoy a French Breakfast. Okay, cool, I like this. Uh, can you please send this plan via email? I've sent the detailed itinerary for your res trip via email. Awesome. Enjoy your trip. Actually you know, I'm worried about whether I can afford this trip financially. Can you confirm if it's feasible? And now you will see that we are switching gears to calling the financial agent where it's going to get the balance for the income and the expenses. This is actually implemented with O three mini and responses API via chain of thought that will be called here Financially. Here's the assessment. Your current balance is quite low but your regular salary and bonuses show strong earning capability to cover the costs. A card loan with a manageable repayment plan is recommended. For example, borrowing 1,640,000 Japanese yen with a 12 month plan would result in a monthly payment around 145,752 Japanese yen, which is manageable. Awesome. Uh, let's just proceed with the represent reservation. Great choice. Would you like me to help with hotel reservations, champagne house tours, or anything specific for your reams itinerary? Yes, I would need help with the hotel reservations. Can you please proceed with that? I started the hotel reservation process for your week long stay in reams. I'll notify you by email once it's complete. Awesome. So now you can see that we are invoking the QA API through responses that is getting called in order to book us an actual reservation. Let's just see if that is continuing on our side. Yep, we see it now. As you know, operators take a little bit of time and you can see that it's trying to select optimal time from the calendar and then it'll be able to update the application and update the hotter reservation on my behalf. With that, thank you so much for taking your time and I really appreciate you going through this session with me and I'll hand it over back to Ben.
