# 3 Steps to Basic AI Literacy: AI 101

<!-- vimeo: 1097050412 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hello. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. My name is Rich Lime Cider, and it is a pleasure to be with you all today, wherever you are in the world, whatever time it may be. When you are watching this, you are very welcome. I am the director of the AI for Nonprofits Sprint at the Fund for the City of New York, and we are a nonprofit organization that is thrilled to be joining you here today in partnership with the Open AI Academy. Presenting this first in a series of three conversations, getting started with artificial intelligence. Our three conversations are gonna be a path to basic AI literacy for those in the nonprofit sector today. Our first session is, uh, is the Basics AI 1 0 1. We'll be going over some terminology, talking a little bit about how nonprofit organizations are using artificial intelligence, and you're gonna see a lot of examples over the next period of time. And then we hope you'll come back. You'll join us for our second session, uh, AI Ethics, safety and Policy, really talking about some of the concerns that, uh, many of us, some of our colleagues in the nonprofit sector have about artificial intelligence and how we should understand some of those challenges, how we might mitigate some of those challenges. And then finally, our third session in the series, advanced Features for chat, GPT. There's some pretty cool stuff out there. And beyond the basics, we want you to start to get an understanding to be able to engage, dive a little bit more deeply in terms of what's possible with this technology. But today, again, AI 1 0 1, let's start, let's start from the very beginning and make sure that we all are in a place where we understand the, the key elements, the fundamentals of artificial intelligence so that we can all move forward knowing how to use language in the same way with a, uh, a firm understanding of where it all begins. We'll start with some introductions today. As I said earlier, my name is Rich Lime Cider. I always tell people if there were a drink made out of limes, it would be lime cider. And, um, I've had a career in the nonprofit sector. I'm a New York City public school kid. I have A-A-M-B-A degree in most of my social work degree. And most recently I ran a really wonderful nonprofit organization called Safe Passage Project that provides free lawyers for young immigrants. Um, I have been the entrepreneur in residence here at the Fund for the City of New York, and I direct our AI for nonprofit Sprint, which I founded, uh, just about a year ago. But in addition to introducing myself, and unfortunately we can't introduce you all, uh, on this, uh, on this video conference today, but I also wanna introduce some of the artificial intelligence tools we'll be playing with and getting to know a little better. Um, I'll show a couple of examples on the screen, but actually why don't we let these tools speak for themselves? Hi, can you, uh, how are you doing today? Hey, rich, I'm doing great. Thanks for asking. How about you? How's your day going so far? I'm good. I'm here doing a presentation to a bunch of nonprofit folks on artificial intelligence. Can you give a very brief introduction and then repeat that introduction in two languages, one of which is, uh, not all that common? Sure, I'd be happy to help. Um, so here's a quick introduction. Welcome everyone. Today we're gonna explore how artificial intelligence can transform the nonprofit sector and help us make an even bigger impact. Now, let me, uh, repeat that in Spanish, which is pretty common. Uh, or, and now I'll try in Swedish, which is as common welcome artificial. Okay, I can't, uh, I can't promise that I can verify the accuracy of the Swedish translation, but that was chat GPT, just the app that everyone can get for free on their phones. Uh, and that was a little, a little welcome, a little introduction. Let's also look at a couple of other tools that are available just by way of introduction. So first, let's look at the kinds of things that chate, uh, can do just with pictures. So here's an example. I ran a little earlier and I said, could you make, uh, a picture that looks like one of those old popular mechanics magazines? An article about the AI for nonprofits sprint? And here's an example, puts together very quickly one of those old timey photos. Did that in about a minute. And then I said, okay, I wanna try videos. I want to use the chat chippie video tool, which is called soa, but I don't really know how to use it so well. So I went to chat GPTI actually asked it for 10 examples of things I could type into the chat GPT tool that I thought would be that it thought would be impressive to you all. Um, so it asked me some questions to clarify what I want to do with it, and then it gave me a bunch of examples for how I might type something in to chat GPT to open AI's SOA tool. And I decided to go with one where we, uh, try to create a video of a raccoon that is writing a grant proposal. And here's what it came up with in about five or six minutes earlier today from where I'm sitting in New York, it created this video. Uh, uh, the, the video recording that, that I'm using right now doesn't always transmit videos super smoothly, but it looks very smooth on my screen where I'm looking right now. And that in fact does look like a very sad raccoon who's got a grant writing deadline coming up. And then finally, I wanna share an example of, uh, one of the ways we can use a research tool, this new, uh, research function that's available on many of the generative AI tools that are pretty cheap and available to most of us these days. In this case, I tried a little HR scenario. I said, can you go do some research and, uh, help me understand the difference between hiring full-time and contract staff in four different states? And so Chatt asked me some clarifying questions. It went off and took seven minutes. It visited 23 different websites and made 106 individual searches across those websites. And then it wrote a 20 page report for me with citations, uh, with detailed tables. Okay, if you wanna, uh, understand the classification tests in each of these four states, here's what you need to understand. And if you want to check my work, here's the website you can go to where, uh, where chat GPT got that information. Lots of tables just like I asked for lots of citations so I can check its work. So these are just a couple of examples to, uh, to give you a taste of the sorts of things we're gonna be looking at and trying to get a better understanding of how to engage with these new AI tools in a way that can be immediately useful with very little advanced training and understanding in the nonprofit sector. Before we do that, before I really give you the, the detailed training and instructions. Before we show more of the advanced ways of, uh, using artificial intelligence, we do wanna start with some basic vocabulary. So we have to know key terms. There is so much jargon going on right now in this world of artificial intelligence. There's dozens, hundreds of words. You absolutely could take a five or 10 session training course, you could take a four year degree in artificial intelligence. I'm here to tell you that in order to use these AI tools in an everyday kind of way, you do not need to have even a fraction of that overall understanding. We all use very sophisticated software, hardware, uh, tools all the time that frankly, I don't know how they made my cell phone. I don't know how they made the spreadsheet program that I use all the time, but I am able to engage with it and use it. If you understand these four terms that are listed on your screen right now, you will be able to have a pretty sophisticated conversation with many people who work with you, many people who are trying to sell you things related to artificial intelligence, even many people who work in the industry itself. The first and most important thing to understand is that artificial intelligence simply means any attempt to get a machine to act more like a person. And so once you understand how broad that definition really is, you can understand how even in the 1950s when there were machines with wood and gears trying to play chess on a chessboard, that was actually an example of artificial intelligence. Over the past 10 or 15 years, anytime one of your streaming television services was recommending the next show for you to watch, Hey, you liked this show, why don't you watch that show? That was an example of artificial intelligence machine learning, which you may have heard about ml, the cool kids call. It was, once scientists realized that you could get the computer to help figure out its own path towards artificial intelligence, you could get the machines to do some of the work to analyze some of the spreadsheets, the data, uh, the underlying information that was called machine learning. That was an innovation also from decades ago. A much more recent development was something called a large language model. And this was really one of the developments over the past few years that made the kind of AI that we're all talking about now possible. A large language model was essentially the discovery that if you took a modern computer, one with a ton of storage space, pretty fast computer chips, if you pointed it at the entire internet and gave it three months or longer and said, go read the whole internet, take your time. The computer would go out there, it would read every Wikipedia page that was publicly available. It would read every website, it could find every research article and journal publication and also some conspiracy theories that were written about on blogs. But when it went out there and read everything that it could find and came back, it was able to have a much more human sounding conversation than any other kind of artificial intelligence that had ever been invented before. And that led to the possibility of something called generative ai. And so whereas when you watch a TV show and it recommends that next show for you to watch, that was really just a very sophisticated way of mapping spreadsheets. Oh, you like these TV shows? We recommend these TV shows. Generative AI is the kind of artificial intelligence that creates something new from scratch when artificial intelligence makes a picture that had never existed before when it writes a poem or a research report that had never existed before. Those are all examples of generative AI creating something new that hadn't existed before. And that is a level of ability that makes a whole host of new opportunities for us in the nonprofit sector. I do also wanna raise this concept of the hype cycle. The hype cycle is something that sociologists, historians have been talking about also for a couple of decades. There's been this observation that anytime a interesting new technology comes out that seems like it might be a big deal. There are a whole bunch of people who really try to oversell it right from the beginning. We hear all kinds of claims. This technology is gonna change the entire world. Uh, everything will be made better and it's all gonna happen by next Tuesday. And then kind of understandably, there is often a backlash to those claims. And then we start to hear this new technology is the enemy of everything that is good in the world. Humanity is gonna suffer, uh, uncontrollably, and there really is no redeeming value to this kind of new technology. Most of the time when these kinds of technologies have come out over the past 30 plus years, things wind up somewhere in the middle, as you might expect. No, it doesn't actually reach the heights of those inflated, uh, claims from the beginning. But neither do we find out that the technologies are entirely garbage and of no use. We learn where and how to use those technologies to our greatest advantage. Now this is not a promise, this is not a scientific rule. This is an observation of things that have happened in the past, but I find this framing helpful when I read evermore, uh, blog posts. Watch that next video, read that next newsletter about what AI might or might not mean for us all. I also wanna introduce a framing that is particularly important in the nonprofit sector. The difference between what I've been calling exponential AI and incremental ai, exponential AI is the notion that there are in fact some really exciting big picture possibilities about what artificial intelligence might do. We're reading about these self-driving cars, we're hearing about ways that they might discover new drugs in the nonprofit sector, in the social sector, we hear about is there gonna be an AI bot that is gonna have mental health conversations with some of our clients? Is artificial intelligence gonna make recommendations about which, uh, foster care, uh, which person in our foster care system needs a little extra attention to make sure they don't fall between the cracks? Those are very interesting. There may in fact be some really exciting potential there. It is definitely true that those kinds of artificial intelligence require more energy, more time and attention and more expense. You have to hire real experts. You have to clean up data in a particular way, and we better make sure that anything we do on that exponential side of the track is as close to a hundred percent perfect as we can possibly imagine. It is simply not acceptable to unleash some kind of new, uh, half thought out AI tool on a vulnerable population. But that said, there is an entire other category of artificial intelligence that is available to us right now. There are off the shelf low cost tools like chat GPT that can help us write that next memo, that grant proposal, get ready for a difficult conversation, analyze a spreadsheet, much more modest goals, goals that don't put members of vulnerable populations at any risk at all, that are much more akin to the way we have been using software tools for the last 50 years in the nonprofit sector. And frankly, if we got 95% reliability out of those tools, that would be pretty good. That might even be better than the reliability we have from some of our colleagues sometimes. The reason we're having this conversation now is that just about, uh, two and a half years ago, OpenAI, the company behind chat, GPT released this first public generative AI tool. They called it chat GPT-3 0.5. There's a whole conversation to be had about the names these things have and the numbers. We'll get into it a little bit. They're not always the most transparent, but that tool was so interesting and so different from the way any other AI tool had ever been seen by the public that it really did launch a million conversations. And today, there are a number of tools that are of comparable quality that are worth engaging and trying. And so the chat GPT models, and we're gonna look through a couple today and over the next few sessions, there's a company called Anthropic that's doing good work, uh, with their AI called Claude Microsoft's copilot excellent AI tool. The, uh, the behind the scenes word on Microsoft's copilot is actually Microsoft works very closely with open ai. And so most of what you're seeing when you're using copilot, if that's how you've had access to, to artificial intelligence, you're actually working with chat GBT and Google has a, uh, really excellent tool called Gemini. That's their AI offering. And there's more. There are other things out there from other companies. The AI tools that we're seeing are also increasingly coming in different flavors, uh, different classes you might say. So chat GPT is an example of a generalist tool. You can engage with it on almost any topic, and it has a sort of above average general perspective on the whole universe because it read everything on the internet. Increasingly, smaller companies are making available tools that are really designed for specific purposes, songwriting, PowerPoint design, academic research, fundraising, legal services. In most cases, it is worth understanding that these specialist companies have not actually invented their own AI tool. They're actually using chat GPT or Claude behind the scenes. But they have created what folks sometimes call a wrapper a skin on top of one of those sophisticated AI tools that may be more relevant or appropriate for a particular audience. So that's not to say those tools aren't valuable, but it is worth understanding you're not actually buying a brand new AI tool. It can cost a billion dollars or more to invent a top of the line AI tool. Most of these smaller companies are putting a, a, a skin or wrapper on top of it to make it more relevant hopefully in a particular function. And then of course, we are seeing ai, generative AI in front of us even where we didn't ask for it. Uh, so, you know, our phones are increasingly offering artificial intelligence tools in every Google search. Most of us are now seeing an artificial intelligence summary at the top. Okay, so we saw a couple of examples of what you can do with AI during the introductions phase, but now let's actually go take a look at some more direct examples of ways that AI might be useful in a work context. And I'm gonna start with three ways of engaging with AI that I think are the absolute best categories to begin with. The best advice I've ever seen that I ever got for myself in how to start my own learning when it came to AI was start with the three skills that most people have to use at work that AI happens to be very good at reading, writing, and chatting. So let's go look at an example of each one of those. So the first one I wanna show you, this is what we're looking at before is an example of reading. So as I mentioned, I was the executive director of a terrific nonprofit safe passage project. I have uploaded here, um, a whole bunch of the annual reports, five years worth of annual reports from that nonprofit. And these look like almost any other, uh, we did a great job, don't get me wrong. But these look pretty much like a lot of annual reports that you will see from other nonprofits. There's, there's pictures, there's the list of who we work with, uh, and then there's summaries, some financial, some programmatic. I have uploaded five years worth of annual reports and my only request or prompt, my only instructions to chat GBT. And by the way, in every example you're gonna see me use today, the the light gray background, that's what I'm typing into the program. The no background white is what chat UBT is typing back to me. All I said was, Hey, I just uploaded a bunch of documents, what do we have here? And it said, okay, you've uploaded several annual reports, this is what they are. That's a summary. So now I said, and again, we're practicing the skill of reading. I said, okay, let's pretend I'm a donor considering a major gift. Can you please summarize how this donor might think of this nonprofit? And in particular, since you're reading all five annual reports, what are some trends that you see over five years and almost instantaneously? Chachi PT writes me a short memo about themes that it has read across the 300 plus pages present in those five annual reports. Okay, safe passage project is showing resilience. They do a lot of client-centered storytelling. That's true. They work a lot with their pro bono attorneys and they've been trying to strengthen those networks. They've had some legal victories and there have been some external crises, all of which a hundred percent true in terms of the way we were explaining our work. It also happens to note that in the last, uh, in that last annual report, there was a mention that their executive director me was leaving the organization. So it definitely caught that might be something that a donor might be interested in. Then the conversation never has to stop, even though we're just still reading these documents. I'm asking chat GBT to help me with reading. What are some skeptical or skeptical questions a donor might ask? And you know, as an executive director, I might wanna be able to practice asking some skeptical questions. I'll speed through that a little bit and I say, what about how it measures impact? So in this case, I'm still asking chat GBT to do reading, but I said, can you make some charts based on what you're seeing? So just from looking at these PDF documents of the annual reports chat, GPT was able to create some charts for me. How many clients is this organization serving? How many pro bono attorneys are they recruiting? What is their success rate? Year on year? And remember, I didn't upload a spreadsheet for it to analyze. I just uploaded a bunch of annual reports where we may have talked about how many clients we had on page three of one document and page 11 of another in a totally different way chat. GPT is reading carefully across all of those documents and giving me an answer. So that's example one reading. How about writing? We often get asked what is possible in terms of AI's ability to write and not just write generically, but write in a way that is actually useful to us. So in this case, I uploaded my resume, my own personal resume, and I said, based solely on the attached, can you write me a 250 word bio? And I get a perfectly reasonable a hundred percent accurate bio for myself, right? If I had to go speak at a conference and I needed something, 250 words, many times people say, can we trust what AI is writing? I heard that it makes mistakes or that it invents things. Well, think about how these models were created. They went out there, they read the entire internet. The good, the bad science literature, if you just ask it a question, it has to figure out what the answer is from that generic understanding of what's out there on the internet. But when I upload my own resume, not only am I able to verify the results much more easily, right? If it says I spent three years, uh, dancing ballet in Moscow, I know that wasn't in fact accurate. But also when I upload my own resume, it's not going out to the internet to find these facts. It's only delivering to me what is in this narrow document, and therefore the chances of error are dramatically reduced. So I get a pretty good writeup of a bio and in many cases this sort of, you know, above average language will get the job done. Rich Lime cider is a seasoned leader, but this is a fake person that we're interacting with, right? Chat GT is not a real colleague. So it can take feedback and it can try to give me a second shot at what I was looking for, but it can take feedback. And so if I didn't like this writing style, instead of simply saying, oh, chat GT is just not the kind of writer that I'm looking for, you can give it feedback. So what if I said, actually now I want a more playful and jaunty version of my bio and immediately in a matter of seconds, instead of a seasoned leader, I'm being described as a dynamo in the social sector, right? Again, not a real colleague, a fake colleague. Go ahead, ask for a third version, 42% more jaunty. Now I'm a swashbuckler. You could ask for 10 versions and this fake colleague never gets annoyed with you for asking for redos over and over and over again. And you can ask it to change its tone of voice to change the way it's approaching you. You can actually, just as you can upload your resume, you can upload your earlier version of your bio. You can upload three articles you wrote last year and say, this is my tone of voice. Please write my bio in my tone of voice, not your tone of voice chat, GPT. So now we've looked at reading with those annual reports and we've looked at writing for this bio and now let's talk about chatting. Chatting allows some of the examples that I am most excited about when it comes to using these off the shelf cheap tools to support the kinds of work we do in nonprofits all day long. And in particular, there's a tremendous opportunity around professional development for junior staff, professional development for staff that may be coming from the communities we serve that may not have certain kinds of formal academic backgrounds. For example, we all know that role playing is a huge opportunity in professional development. When you can practice those conversations, you're gonna be ready for doing them in the real world. Here's a scenario where I sat down with chat pt. Again, this is not a particular version of chat pt, I did not buy the HR module of chat pt. Every time I'm coming to it, I'm just sitting down with the regular old $20 a month chat. GPT, I'd like your help with professional development. Of course. How should we do it? Here's a scenario I wrote and I'm telling chat GPT, just as if I had an HR person coming into my office and I said, Hey, I need you to help me with, uh, with professional development, role playing. I said, hi, I'm a new manager at a senior citizen center, one of our clients, his daughter's gonna be coming in tomorrow and the client has been getting agitated and the daughter seems upset. I'm really nervous about talking to this daughter. Can I practice that conversation with you? Sure. Now, one hint and we'll talk about this a little bit more later, is because these AI tools are a fake colleague, you can actually tell, tell them just like you would any real colleague. Do you have any questions for me? Uh, did Is my assignment clear? Would you like me to clarify anything? And it will ask you thoughtful questions. So chat GT came up with these questions just based on my two sentence scenario. Did you ever previously interact with this client or the daughter? Do you know if the daughter has expressed her concerns to anybody else at the center? What is your goal for this meeting? It wants to do a good job at building this scenario, just like that senior person in your office would if you were asking for help, I answer the questions we get going and we kind of enter a play. I say, hi, come on in, right? I'm talking to this pretend daughter. Chue says, the daughter walks in, visibly tense, sits down without making eye contact. Gives me a little quote now just to test chat GPT to give it a a little experience. I pretended to be really bad at my job. I said, Hey lady, chill out. Uh, maybe your dad's not upset at something that happened in the center. Maybe something at home is going on. The daughter's face reddens, she leans forward slightly. Her voice growing sharper, right? So it's giving me real context about how, uh, this client might react if there was an aggressive staff person if I was bad. So we go back and forth, we have this kind of play, and at the end of the role playing, I say, yes. Can you give me some feedback on how I did? Pretend you are a senior social worker. Great, here's the feedback. You did eventually acknowledge concerns, but saying, whoa, chill out. Came across as dismissive. You did eventually shift the tone and deescalate, but you have some areas for improvement. Rich, manage your tone. Show more empathy. Again, this is just generic feedback. When it was instructed to think like a social worker. If you had a manual in your organization about ways one should interact, you could have uploaded that manual and say, give feedback in professional development scenarios based on the way we do things here at our organization. Okay, so that was reading, that was writing. And this is roleplaying or chatting Incremental AI literacy is what we're looking for at our organization, the AI for nonprofit Sprint. We've articulated this five point scale for what it might mean to be literate in artificial intelligence. And our strong belief is that you do not need to get to step five. You do not need to be at the fifth level of literacy in order to be effective day to day. The same is true with spreadsheets, right? Almost everybody we work with knows how to open a spreadsheet tool, sort a column alphabetically, get basic use out of it. Some people write fancy formulas, some people know how to use pivot tables. That is great, that's wonderful for our organizations. But it's almost impossible to get any work done unless almost everybody has basic literacy in a spreadsheet. And we believe that is pretty much where we are now when it comes to artificial intelligence. So level three, our hope for where you will be towards the end of this three series, uh, webinar session is regular self-directed use of AI tools to improve your own work. That you'll be aware of the risks and you know how to mitigate those risks. And that ultimately you'll be able to use something like chat GPT as successfully and as often as you might use Microsoft Excel or Google Docs or whatever the case may be. So that is our goal. Why do we think it's so important? Well, first of all, we do not have enough resources to do our job in nonprofits. I have never sat down with the leadership team of a social sector organization and had them say, Hey Rich, I gotta tell you, we have all the people, all the money, all the volunteers, all the resources we need. This problem that we're working on is gonna be solved within six months. So, you know, go ahead and take a break. That's never the conversation we get to have. Anything we can do that adds any kind of resources for us, especially now at a particularly challenging time is something that is vital. But I also wanna suggest that if you are an organization that's interested in that exponential category of ai, more in the self-driving cars category, we don't wanna go down that path until we're able to bring in and invite the perspective of the majority of our staff building some amazing AI tool. When only two or three people in our organization even really understand the basics of how AI works, means we're gonna be missing out on the input and the perspective of the majority of our staff. So working on the incremental AI side is a prerequisite to getting engaged with some of the more exponential levels of artificial intelligence. And then finally, we think it's just valuable, particularly for the social sector to be able to participate in this broader society-wide conversation about ai. These conversations are happening, the social sector for the most part is not being invited to the table. So we're gonna have to elbow our way in a little bit, but we can't be at the table if we don't know what we're talking about. We have to have a basic understanding of AI to be there and to have the conversation with everybody else. We know some of these things because at the AI for nonprofit Sprint, we've been doing a survey of nonprofit staff for most of the past year. We actually now have more than 4,000 responses. Uh, here are some charts based on a couple of weeks ago. Overwhelmingly, you all on this, uh, watching this video right now and your colleagues have used AI at work. This is already the case. This is not a hypothetical. At the same time, overwhelmingly nonprofit staff are not working in places where they have been given any kind of instructions or guidelines, dos or don'ts when it comes to AI at work. Most people aren't using one of the paid models that offer some extra features. And while most staff don't feel very expert, uh, the largest number of staff, 35% rate themselves a one out of five on how expert are you? It's interesting to note that 25% of nonprofit staff think they're pretty good at ai. And so if you don't know who those 25% of your colleagues are, there's a really interesting opportunity there. When you have staff that are using ai, some of whom are pretty good at it, but are doing it in an environment where they don't have rules, dos and don'ts, you get this phenomenon that a that the wonderful professor at the University of Pennsylvania, this guy Ethan Molik calls secret cyborgs. And a secret cyborg is a staff person who is doing great things with AI and not telling anybody about it because they're afraid they're gonna get in trouble. There hasn't been any official word from the organization, so they keep it to themselves. There are two negative consequences, kind of on the opposite ends of the spectrum here. Number one, some of those staff that are using AI might in fact be doing things that we wish they weren't. They might be putting in information that's confidential or might even be violating, uh, a state regulation or a contract that we have. On the other hand, the folks that are figuring out really useful ways to use ai that are saving time, that are finding ways to reduce their administrative burden and spend more time with clients, they're not sharing those experiences with their colleagues, with their bosses. And that's a huge loss. We're getting this free research and development and then we're not using it in our own organizations. But I do want you to know that overwhelmingly nonprofit staff at every level, this is not just the chief information officer. This is not just the strategy people. This includes folks that are managing beds in a foster care institution. This includes folks that are doing community organizing. Some of the staff we, uh, interviewed don't even have a computer that's been assigned to them in their job. They're doing everything on their phone. Overwhelmingly, nonprofit staff do want to learn more about ai. They do want to have a conversation and they want that conversation to happen at work so they can learn more about what's possible. So how do you do it? How do you use AI safely and incrementally? As you've heard me mention over the past little bit, these generative AI tools work best when we treat them like a pretend person. They are not a person, they don't have personhood or feelings. They are software. But when we act like they're a fake person, we get the most out of them. And as you may have heard others say, it's best to think of them like a somewhat naive new employee, like a grad student intern, someone who majored in everything, right? They read everything on the internet, but they don't really know much about your organization yet. And so they're kind of naive about the context. On the other hand, they don't ever get tired. You can ask them the exact same question 15 times. You can ask them to redo the assignment when you say, Hey, I want you to brainstorm a fun activity for the annual retreat. You don't have to say brainstorm five. You can say brainstorm a hundred possible activities. And so because of all that, one of the things that I often remind people is that while younger and more technologically comfortable staff may be the first ones to try ai, they aren't na necessarily the people who are naturally the best at using ai. It turns out that because working with AI is just like working with a fake staff person, our colleagues who wind up being the best at using AI are the ones who've been in management. If you've ever had an intern, if you've ever directed a junior staff person and had to give really clear feedback when they got the first draft of their assignment wrong, you're gonna be really good at working with these tools. It's really not only, uh, uh, or even at all necessarily aligned to your age and the way you feel about computers. Okay? So what do you have to do? How do you get started? If you're truly at zero? Many of you are already using these tools, you're watching this webinar for some extra tips, but you've already gotten here. You've already spent 10 or more hours. If not, here are the four initial lessons. Number one, start with a generalist tool. You want to build some intuition about what these things can do. Don't start only with a video maker or a songwriter. Start with a generalist tool like a chat GPT or a Claude or co-pilot if that's what's in your organization. Try to make sure you get access to one of the paid versions. Again, your company may already have paid for that. Your nonprofit may have that as a part of their existing subscriptions. If not, it might be worth trying to get, uh, a few months yourself, even just for the 20 bucks. Make an appointment to do real work. A couple of hours every single week. You might just put something on your calendar. Wednesdays at three, I spend two hours playing with chat GPT and whatever, whatever else you were meant to be doing on Wednesday at three, see if chat GPT can help you do it. Think about the kinds of things where if you had a colleague who was getting things done good enough, that would be helpful. Many of us in the sector work with lots of colleagues where we are better at the thing than our colleagues are, but we still value working with them. That's okay. Lots of managers, lots of senior staff have developed tremendous expertise over time. We still have a ton of value working with colleagues even if they don't have as much experience as we do. So we can take that mindset and say, okay, even if chat GPT isn't as good as me as a writer, as a data analyst, it still could be useful. Second of all, we can engage with these tools as a thought partner. We can share something that is kind of expert and say, what do you think of this? But I would recommend that you begin with those three skills. The reading, the writing, and the chatting. By all means, if you write computer code for a living, if you are all about, uh, data analysis, feel free to begin with those tools. Most of us in a daily, in a, on a daily basis, in a day-to-day way. What we are doing is we are reading and trying to synthesize what we've learned. We are writing memos, speeches, grant proposals, meeting agendas, case notes, and we are chatting, we are having conversations with other people. Those are all examples of ways that AI chat GT can be useful. Now, I will share here this, uh, this acronym. We call it the Aspire model. And by the way, we'll have documents available so you can, you'll have access to these tools in written forms separate than just these webinars. This is an acronym. It's just as good as half a dozen else that are also on the internet. They're all pretty much the same and pretty fine. Um, I'm partial to this one. Chat. GPT helped me come up with the acronym. I like the fact that it sounds like aspire be simple. Just write in plain English, ask the tool what you want. There's no such thing really anymore as prompt engineering. If you've ever heard that term, you don't need some sophisticated special way of typing into these tools. Type in your own vernacular, type in the way that you are comfortable speaking as a person. It'll figure it out. That said, because it learned how to be a fake person by reading the whole internet. One, uh, point of advice that has held steady for, uh, quite a while now is if you give it a role or a specific kind of persona, it helps it narrow down what knowledge to be thinking about. So again, it knows just as much about French poetry as it does about chemistry experiments. If you say, hi, I run a human services nonprofit in Savannah, Georgia, you are my chief of staff. All of a sudden, every question, every assignment you give it after that is gonna be much more relevant and further to that point, anything you can upload, any information you can give it while still honoring safety and confidentiality is going to make its answers better. We have all kinds of information about our organizations, our annual reports, our press releases, even our, you know, tax information, our annual nine nineties here in the United States. These are all publicly available. Putting them into an AI tool doesn't violate anybody's privacy, but it can give that tool tremendous background and context for a conversation. You wanna go talk to a member of your board of directors about your upcoming strategy. You can upload that board member's bio and your last three annual reports and your conversation with chat t is gonna be unbelievably richer. And then finally, recommendations four and five. Be conversational. Just like with a, with a real person. When you're talking to your fake person, ask it. If it understands the assignment, refine your question and you can ask it to do that, you can say, Hey, here's what I want you to do. Does this make sense? Do you have any questions for me? It will ask you detailed questions, be conversational and go back and forth. This is not like working in a Google search. Most of us have spent the past 5, 20, 30 years. When did Google come out? I don't remember. Uh, where you type in a search and you get what you get and either you got something helpful, which was great, or you didn't get something helpful and you walked away. This is a fake person. If you ask it for something and you don't get what you're looking for, it's time to refine your question, to give it feedback and to try again. The conversational approach works. Now, we're gonna have a much deeper conversation about safety and ethics in our next session together, but I do wanna briefly cover the two most frequently asked questions that I get when I do these sessions. And at this point, I've been fortunate to have a conversation with more than 5,000 individual nonprofit staff on dozens of video conferences, just like this one. During our surveys, we saw a range of questions and concerns. Every one of these will be raised and addressed, uh, if not to satisfaction, at least in discussion in our next session. But the first one that comes up is, what about my data? What about privacy? Well, you've, as you've heard me say, let's start incrementally. Let's think about what it means to actually not put in any confidential data to start. What if we only experimented for the next few months doing the kinds of things we could do when we didn't put in any private information about our clients or our colleagues? You should use a company that you have some reason to trust, just like you do with thinking about the cloud, with thinking about where are you gonna store all of the spreadsheets and all the other information that frankly, we have been putting in the hands of technology companies for years. The vast majority of us are using email and sending confidential documents through the internet with email. We are saving things to a Microsoft SharePoint or to a Google Cloud. You wanna work with a company that you trust and that you believe them when they make certain assurances to you. You can adjust settings. So there are certain privacy and, uh, security settings. And if you haven't yet, you want to double click that setting button in whatever tool you're using and make sure you're giving yourself the most secure version that makes you comfortable. And then particularly if you're in a regulated environment as a nonprofit, you certainly do need to make sure you understand the laws that you are subject to. If you are in a healthcare environment bound by hipaa, you wanna make sure you're talking to your colleagues that are in charge of complying with that sort of healthcare privacy in everything you're doing. Whether it has to do with AI or your paper records. Uh, a company like OpenAI is trying to be as transparent as possible. I know about where they are and aren't compliant, and as a young company, they actually don't have all of the same, uh, certifications and compliances that some of the other companies do yet, but they are compliant with the European GDPR. They are compliant with SOC one and SOC two and all these other things that it experts understand that frankly, I don't. But there's a, a good website on your screen trust.openai.com that will tell you particularly where OpenAI is able to offer promises of certain kinds of trust and security. The second question I hear all the time is, what about the environment? Do haven't, I heard that AI is gonna hurt the planet. And so just to address this again briefly with more depth in our upcoming session. Using AI takes really sophisticated computers. It actually takes these warehouses of computers called data centers, and there is some concern that those data centers are gonna use a lot of electricity, may already be using a lot of electricity, they use water in order to keep them cool so that the computer chips don't overload. Um, and there's an understanding that these data centers are already using 4% of electricity in the United States, and that will probably increase from my understanding and comfort in the way I approach this. It is also true that using Netflix or watching an hour of streaming video uses a ton of electricity and cooling for those same data centers. It is also true, and I don't know if you remember this music video, Despacito from a number of years ago. There were articles written at the time about how just that music video used a tremendous amount of electricity and water that said, electricity is only about a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. And so what that means is, if you kind of follow the, the math chain right now, to the best of my understanding, AI is responsible for 0.5% of carbon emissions in the United States. That is not nothing that is substantial. That is certainly a lot more than me turning on a light bulb or turning off a, uh, turning off my air conditioner in my house. But it also is a part of my carbon footprint that I feel comfortable with in that context. And people can make different decisions, but I think it's important to sort of understand, uh, our best facts behind that at the time. Okay, let's look at some final examples of, uh, more advanced ways. One can use AI tools like chat GPT in the nonprofit sector. And then we'll wrap up and hopefully I'll see you again in one of our other conversations. Okay, here we go. So I wanna share something that the program staff might use. Here is something that many human services nonprofits need on a regular basis. It's called a letter of medical necessity. A letter of medical necessity is when you have to write to an insurance company or to a state Medicaid agency asking them to reimburse you for some kind of mental health or healthcare treatment for a low income person. And just like every other insurance company, they are basically looking for ways to not approve the treatment. They want to kick back the letter and say, no, we're not gonna pay for this. So if your colleagues, if your staff people aren't writing these things perfectly, you don't get paid. So what I did here is I uploaded the instructions from New York State's Medicaid Agency on how to write one of these letters of medical necessity. And I said, okay, I want you to pretend to be one of those 1950s style secretaries. You're coming into my office, you're gonna take notes by talking to me, and then you're gonna go off and write this letter that I need. But we have to be private. We have to respect confidentiality, the HIPAA privacy of our patient. Don't ask me anything that has to do with their private information. Ask me everything else. I'll fill that stuff in later. Great. It reads the instructions on how to write one of these letters. And it says, okay, here, here's what I do need to know. I need to know the patient's condition. I need to know why it's a medical necessity that they get this treatment. I need to know where they're gonna pick this up. Pick up the medicine or who the provider is to the therapy. And I need to know the general condition of the patient. None of these things are confidential. They, they didn't ask the gender, they didn't ask the name, they didn't ask the social security number. Now again, this is a fake person, not a real person. So when they ask me for nine, they ask me nine questions I don't have to answer in full sentences. I don't even have to ask them how their vacation was or what they're gonna do this weekend. Boom, boom, boom. Here are the nine answers to your nine questions. And immediately, Chachi PT writes me a perfectly structured letter of medical necessity in the exact order that New York State Medicaid requires. I can paste this into uh, uh, you know, a Word document, fill in the confidential stuff, print it off, send it in. If it's a government agency, they might want it faxed. Who knows how They still want these things, but I haven't violated anybody's privacy and I got an accurate administrative letter done in two minutes that even if it only took 10 minutes or 15 minutes, the old way, if you have to do 10 or 50 of these in a week, this is a life changing opportunity for administrative staff or for a social worker who has to do all kinds of these things when they wish they could be spending more time with a client. Okay, that was a program example. Here's a marketing example. This is a nonprofit that had a really lovely but somewhat dry academic report that they were proud of. Something about building sustainable home ownership in Detroit. Well, they had this great report, but what can we do with it? So I gave it information, right? I uploaded the report and now I'm giving it a role. Another one of the recommendations, you computer are the special assistant to the vice president of marketing. Do all the following, give me an outline for a webinar we might host based on this report. Write the LinkedIn and the Twitter posts that are gonna promote the webinar and then give me a draft of five minutes of opening remarks from our CEO. But I don't want your plain vanilla version of language that he might write. I want it in the voice of our CEO. So here's actually a YouTube video of him talking for an hour. Go watch that in 10 seconds. And then based on whether he tells a lot of jokes, whether he thanks people at the beginning or the end, write a five minute draft of his opening remarks, and in fact in just a matter of seconds but minutes, if you choose to go back and forth, I get a reasonable outline of what that webinar might look like. Now, in some cases you might think that this webinar outline is only 50% good, but instead of looking at a totally blank page and having to draft that outline of a webinar, at least you have a first draft on your screen in front of you. In some cases, you might look at this and think, actually that's kind of 90%. It went through it, found the real names of real people who work at this organization and recommended them for different sections of the webinar. I asked for another draft that included board members. It did that. Then it writes the LinkedIn posts, the Twitter posts, and gives me eventually the language from the CEO. Okay, here's something that the finance team might find useful. So remember I was the executive director of this great place Safe Passage project. In this case, I uploaded five years of detailed financial analysis. All of the tax returns, all of the audited financials. Again, I have no concern putting all of this into chat GPT because it's already on the website for the nonprofit. There's nothing confidential here at all in the world. It's out there for anyone to see at any time. But I upload all 10 documents, about a thousand pages of financial information, summarizes it all, you know, in less than 20 seconds. And then for this exercise, just because I wanted to show off to you all, I said I'm giving it a roll now, right? Act like a sophisticated nonprofit accountant. Read all of these documents extremely carefully. Perform some fancy financial analysis. I'm not a nonprofit accountant, so the best I could do is ask it to be fancy and let's see what it comes up with. It reads all 10 of those documents and it starts to say, okay, here's revenue over time. Here's expenses over time. Here's net assets over time. Now already, that's not particularly sophisticated, but remember all it's got is a bunch of PDFs. It didn't have a spreadsheet. So it's reading about our revenue in one year. That's on page seven. And then revenue from another year. That might not be in page 13 of another document. And it's making sure to line everything up to tell a story. Now it's starting to do liquidity ratios. Now it's kind of getting interesting fundraising efficiency, other key financial ratios and trends, right? Makes a little summary. Again, I can talk to it. The conversation is never over. Make some really nice looking charts and graphs. Okay boss, sure. Here's revenue versus expenses over that five year period. Here's net asset growth over that five year period. Here's fundraising efficiency over that five year period. So if you're getting ready for a board meeting, if you're getting ready to meet with a particular funder, if you're just trying to have an internal conversation, you can get some pretty impressive financial analysis. If you just wanna double check the work of your outside auditor or accountant, you can upload what they've said and ask chat GBT to be a second opinion. That's finance. Here's a, uh, a pretty complicated example in the fundraising and development section. This is for a government contract. So I uploaded an 80 page file from a state government saying this is a, a request for proposals. What nonprofits want to submit these multi-hundred page applications for tens of millions of dollars that are available from a state government. This is a lot of work. It's usually something that's done by a team over a number of weeks, at least at most of the nonprofits where I've ever worked. I simply start by uploading it. I say read this RFP carefully. What is it? Gives me a nice summary. This was from a few years ago. I found it online. It's from legal services. Great. Then I uploaded a bunch of information about a nonprofit I really like, uh, that also does legal services. I uploaded their annual report. It's called NY a GI uploaded their annual report. I uploaded their financial information all public. So again, I have no concerns about putting that into chat gt and I say, okay, tell me what the nonprofit does. Gives me a little summary of the nonprofit. Now here's where it gets interesting and what you all could do if this is a challenge you have, you could do this this afternoon, you could do it tomorrow based on what the nonprofit does and based on what the state is looking for, what would be a good fit? So if I am the head of this nonprofit, what should we actually be thinking about responding to? What, what, what might we put in an application for it? Well, you do housing and they wanna pay for housing. You do family matters and they wanna pay for family matters, subsistence income, et cetera, et cetera. My background is in immigration. So keeping the conversation going, I said, let's focus on immigration. Looking at this state, RFP, this incredibly complicated packet, what exactly would we have to put together? Like help make a checklist, a to-do list if we were gonna even think about applying for this thing, great. Here's the package outline. Now notice I'm not speaking in any computer code, I'm not writing in any special way. I'm just trying to talk to it the way I would talk to my fundraising manager if I was an executive director trying to give clear instructions. Great, here's the package outline. You're gonna need a cover sheet. Oh, I also asked Chachi, pt, which of these things can you write on your own based on what you already know, because I uploaded so much stuff and which are you gonna need a human to help you with? And said, okay, there's a cover sheet. Um, hey, I can actually draft it. You don't need to help. We're gonna need to do projections of clients served. We're gonna need to write a narrative proposal, including the organizational capacity. CHATT is saying, you know what? You've sent me your annual report and your tax returns. I can actually write your organizational capacity and experience. You don't need to tell me any of that. And anyway, here are the 20 plus parts of this application. Here are the parts I can draft on my own. Says the computer. Here are the parts where I'm gonna need your input, right? I don't have any information about the budget. I don't have any information about staff resumes yet. And then we keep the conversation going, let's keep this moving forward section by section. I say, great, go ahead and write that cover sheet. Go ahead and write the, it said it needs my help for the projections. I said, go ahead and write the narrative proposal just based on what I'd already shoved in. It's like, okay, here's the history of of NY a g. Here's our experience in immigration services. Here's the partnerships and collaborations we've already had. Here's our achievements and impact. I didn't type a single word of this. This is all based on the information that had been uploaded. So you can imagine going back and forth and coming out after an hour of a conversation with this tool, with maybe 50% of the overall package, something that might have taken two weeks and multiple staff to have a zillion emails and meetings about, you're at least halfway there in half a day. And then the last thing I wanna just share very specifically is how our own clients can be using AI and frankly, may already be using ai. And so here's a job application use that someone in one of our programs might already be doing. I found a very complicated job opportunity online, uh, kind of government related, and I pasted it all in here. And then I said, um, and it, it summarized it for me. That's great. And I said, okay, but you know what? Can you put this job description in much simpler language for my cousin who didn't graduate from high school? And so maybe we have a, you know, a job training staff person who would do something like that. So great. Here's the job description. In much more direct, simpler, uh, simpler language. You'll help people who've been in jail or prison find out about college and job programs. Here's what you're gonna have to do, et cetera. Then I say, here's my resume. What are my greatest strengths and weaknesses for this role? And we can have any of our clients, any of our partners, any of our young people doing something similar. Here's a job description. Now look at my resume. Look at my background. Tell me how I might be a fit and where I'm not a fit. I put in my own resume. So it's saying, okay, great. You've done public speaking and you've shown commitment to all these things. Uh, it was very kind. It said, maybe I'm overqualified for this particular role, but we can work with clients on this sort of thing. Essentially, we, we can work with them without having to ask them to upload any confidential or personal information so they don't have to put in their own resume. Although you might think of their resume as something they're actually putting out into the world anyway. It's not the same thing as their social security, uh, information. And we should also be aware that this is the kind of thing our partners and our clients are in fact already doing. So those are some more use cases thought of by department. What have we talked about today? Well, we've talked about ai, machine learning, large language models, generative artificial intelligence. We've talked about trying to think incrementally and what's possible for the nonprofit sector with the cheap off the shelf stuff. Before we worry about the self-driving cars and the exponential work of artificial intelligence, we've talked about the reality that you almost certainly have some secret cyborgs sitting over there or sitting over there in your office and how to engage with them. And we've talked about getting started putting in a couple hours a week reading, writing, and chatting using this aspire model. I very much hope this conversation has been useful to you today. Again, this is just the first of three hopefully helpful sessions that we are doing partnerships between the AI for nonprofit Sprint and the Open AI Academy taking steps towards basic AI literacy. I hope to see you again next time when we dive much more deeply into AI ethics, policy and safety. Thank you so much.
