# 3 Steps to Basic AI Literacy: Advanced Features of ChatGPT

<!-- vimeo: 1097050434 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1097050434)

<details>
<summary>자막: 3 Steps to Basic AI Literacy: Advanced Features of ChatGPT</summary>

Hi, everyone. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever you are in the world, you are very welcome. My name is Rich Leiter. I am the director of the AI for Nonprofit Sprint at the Fund for the City of New York. And we are thrilled to be working in close partnership with the Open AI Academy to bring to you this three part series, getting Beyond the Hype, how to get started with Artificial Intelligence, particularly for nonprofits and those working in the social sector. And we're thrilled to be with you today for that third part in our, in our series. Hopefully, if you are joining us today, you've already seen our first two sessions, AI 1 0 1, uh, all about getting started, basic vocabulary, lots of first time examples, and the information you need to really begin your journey. You joined us at AI Ethics Policy and Safety, where we took a much deeper dive in, uh, seven of the most frequently mentioned concerns that we hear, particularly from nonprofit staff over the past year, and how to take steps to better understand and mitigate some of those challenges in working with artificial intelligence, particularly when we're working on behalf of vulnerable populations. If you haven't had a chance to, to visit those first two sessions, we will be moving past some basic concepts today. So now's a great time to pause your video and hop on over and watch those two. But if you're ready, I think we're gonna have some fun today. We are gonna go talk about some advanced features of chat GBT and really see, uh, based on the current state of the art in mid 2025, what you can do with, uh, with some of the, the latest and most interesting features in the, uh, top of the line generative AI models, particularly as relates to the work that we are trying to do in the nonprofit sector. So here we go, session three. Couple of quick reminders. As always, I tell people if there was a drink made out of limes, it would be lime cider. That's my last name. Uh, otherwise I've shared a little bit about me in the past. But, uh, I do have this tremendous privilege to have founded and led the AI for Nonprofits Sprint, where we're working with more than 130 nonprofit organizations and, uh, trying to support this concept of basic AI literacy, not advanced computer science degrees, but what does it mean for the vast majority of nonprofit staff to become just as comfortable using artificial intelligence tools as we in fact already are using spreadsheets and email and, uh, word processing software and all kinds of other things. So, uh, a couple of those basic concepts today, and in this entire three-part series, we are focused on what we call the incremental side of artificial intelligence. Using those basic off the shelf tools, we think that's actually a necessary prerequisite to some of the, especially interesting, fancy, bigger picture, self-driving car kinds of artificial intelligence, even the ones that we might want to use in the social sector. We've gotta start with the blocking and tackling, getting the basics set, and really democratizing that understanding of AI across our staffs. Our push is for a medium level of AI literacy. We are not, again, looking to get everyone to some kind of maximum understanding. Really, if we could get our colleagues to a three out of five, that would be a pretty amazing place to be. And we've shared, uh, over the past couple of sessions are aspire model, but these basics are gonna continue to feature in a lot of the demos and examples I'm gonna show you today. We are not teaching any kind of complicated prompt engineering or you have to type in, in a special way. Uh, we are encouraging you to, uh, ask the AI tools to adopt a persona, to give it as much background and context as you can in a given situation, and really to invest in this conversational approach that we are working with a fake person. And when we embrace the idea that we go back and forth, we give feedback, uh, we have, uh, multiple rounds to a conversation, you do in fact then get the best out of these generative AI tools. And especially when we talked about ethics and safety, we talked about how important it is to give our colleagues a clear set of guidelines. It's just too difficult to be at the cutting edge, to be doing the innovative work in our organizations when we're not sure if we're allowed to, if we're somehow violating some rules. And so we shared these six provisional, uh, rules that we think make sense for you to send out right now if you're in a leadership position so that folks know AI use is encouraged, but we're gonna protect the confidentiality of data that we remind individuals that they are responsible for any work they pass on, whether AI helped them with it or whether an intern helped them with it, or whether an outside contractor helped them with it. Those rules don't change. And so on. Today, we're gonna really discuss how to go deeper with these tools in three main categories, and we're gonna do all of this through a series of demos. So first we're gonna talk about how to personalize your chat GPT experience. A lot of folks haven't necessarily poke those buttons. We're gonna make sure we're all up to speed on that. We're gonna dive a little more deeply into what folks call the multimodal experience. Yes, that's jargon, but it really just means using these tools beyond just typing into a keyboard. Uh, how do you use voice and sound, how do you use, uh, vision? And then we'll talk about some further features as well. So let's get right into it. I'm gonna share my screen and show a lot of things. Uh, first, how do you personalize chat GT How do you really work on it to make it directly relevant to your personal approach? So I'm gonna show you mine. I'm gonna, uh, share my screen right here, and we're gonna actually look at it. Here are the settings that I have in my own personal chat GPT account. And frankly, it starts with a, with a little settings button up in the upper right when you click your name. And it kind of looks like the way the settings features do on a dozen other software programs that we all have used. They, they didn't invent the wheel here, reinvent the wheel. Um, you can do a theme in terms of how it looks visually. You can tell it what kind of language you want, you wanna work with. Uh, for later on when we use the voice model, there's a half a dozen different styles of voice in terms of privacy. I wanna share a couple of things. Chat, PT over the past few months has rolled out this idea of memory where they will, within your account explicitly try to remember things you've said, typing in from one conversation across another. So if you type in, uh, hey, I am looking for vacation options for my family. I have two kids and we really like an active, uh, an active vacation kind of situation, then, uh, what chat g PT will do is they might remember this is a person, he has a family and two kids and they like active hikes. Now, the next time you start to have that conversation, it'll bring that in. You can allow it to reference saved memories, or you can turn that off and say, actually, I don't want you to be memorizing things about me either because I have concerns about confidentiality. Or maybe frankly, you're using chat GBT in a hypothetical situation a lot of times. And so you were asking on behalf of a friend, and if it remembers that you have two kids the next time, that's actually a mistake because you in fact don't have two kids. Um, so you want to, you know, think about whether or not you wanna allow it to use that memory system. Thinking about data controls, many people have heard and learned that these AI tools, if they can, would read what we're typing in, strip away our personal information and data, but would love to keep the sentences, the ideas as they continue to learn how to be better fake humans. So you heard me say in previous sessions that the innovation of a large language model was when a computer could go out and read the entire internet, all kinds of things out there. When it came back, it was able to act more like a person to improve these models. Over time, the AI companies would like to keep reading new information, including what we're typing in. Well, if you type, if you turn this feature off, uh, can it improve the model using our information or not? Then it's just keeping all of your data private and confidential. If you are using the free version of chat GPT, you must go into settings and explicitly turn this feature off. If you're on one of the paid versions of chat GBT, either through your organization or a personal account, it starts off and you would have to log in and turn it on. You can also manage whether or not you're sharing links with others. And in a moment I'll show you how to share your conversations with other people. But those are the key elements to, uh, to chat GT settings. The other thing you can do is customize your chat GT experience so that every time you come back to a conversation, you're not starting from a completely blank slate, right? One of a, you know, for those of us who are really kind of just getting started with chat, GPT part of the experience is every time it's kind of like a, a robot whose memory has been erased or one of those sci-fi movies, we're starting every conversation completely from scratch. And several of the things that we're talking about today are different ways to move beyond that to actually come back to a colleague and have them remember either just the bare bones basics or in fact some really sophisticated elements of who we are and what we're trying to do. So we don't have to start every conversation as if a brand new PhD graduate just showed up at our office, but every day is their first day of work. We don't want that Groundhog Day effect a lot of the times. So if you just go into that customized feature, again from the upper right, you can tell it a little bit about yourself and you can say anything that you want it to do in every single conversation. Now, I have found that, uh, you know, as I said, as part of that Aspire model, these tools work best when they take on a certain role. So what I wrote in as a trait for my copy of chat, bt if I forgot to ask it to take on a certain role, I've told Chachi bt to remind me, Hey, rich, you didn't tell me to take on a certain role in this conversation. Did you mean for me too? And I've also found that, uh, the experiences, the conversations are much more successful when as that fake colleague chat, GPT has asked me some clarifying questions before it gets into it. So if I have forgotten to invite those clarifying questions, I've taught it as my subordinate, as my colleague to ask me clarifying questions before it goes ahead and pursues the project. They also have some suggestions. You can just give it a tone. You can say, I like it when it's witty, versus I like a more traditional approach. I want it to be extra skeptical. And then anything else you want chat GBT to know about you? Sure. I put in my bio, I thought there's no reason why, you know, these things are all, uh, online. Anyway, it's perfectly fine for it to know about my, uh, about my personal background, and that's how I have customized my copy of chat GPT. Okay, A couple of other basics. This share button at the upper right, if this is not something you have been using, it is a really wonderful feature. It, again, looks just like the share button in so many of the other tools we use on our, you know, text chains, social media websites. The, you know, the icon is pretty much the same when you hit the share button and then hit create link. It gives you a link to the conversation you're in the middle of. But what's important is that it is a link to a more private version of that conversation. So by copying this link and then sharing it with a friend, a colleague, a family member, I am giving them a more private version of the conversation I've just had. If I uploaded any documents in order to create this conversation, those documents are not available through the shared link. If it has created any images or graphs based on those documents, those document that those, uh, pictures are not available in the shared chat. And if I continue on in this conversation, let's say, uh, you know, as of a certain time of day, I've had a back and forth five or six times I share that chat. It's a frozen snapshot in time of where the conversation was at that moment. I can keep going and have further interactions with chat GPT in that conversation. The later back and forth won't be in that shared copy. So it's a really nice way if you've had, uh, an interaction that was useful, you learn something you want to tell a colleague, you want to tell a family member, you can copy the link right here. They have no access to any other part of your personal chat GT account. They're really only looking at a snapshot of the conversation you've had so far. And then similarly, um, you know, many of us are used to, uh, let's see here, many of us are used to the idea of an incognito mode or a private mode on a web browser. If you see this thing that looks a little bit like a, uh, a, a talking bubble in a dotted line, if you click that, it is the equivalent of one of those private browser windows where it's giving you special extra privacy protections for a conversation that you might need to have about an HR situation that you really don't want it to even appear on your screen so that no one walking by, uh, will even know what you were talking about. So it's always nice to know that that feature, that feature is available. Okay, the final very basic element to share and for us to talk about, for those who are really ready to be at that next level, I wanna talk about the different models. Many of us have noticed that there are kind of a zillion, uh, somewhat confusingly named versions of chat GPT that might be available to you. And you might have a slightly different list depending on are you in the free version? Do you have a personal paid account? And at what level are you inside a company account and what level are they paying for? Um, I don't have any problem despite my, uh, despite my partnership and appreciation for everything that OpenAI, uh, is doing to support nonprofits, I have no problem in saying that the naming of all of these models is unhelpful. Uh, it's confusing, you know, trying to, trying to intuit what is the difference between 4.0 and oh three, which are extremely different versus 4.5 or 4.1. Um, it's a challenging situation and it is also quite possible that in the next weeks or months we will have new models or even a different way of naming them. What is really important to understand right now is any model that is a number, and then the letter O, and I'm gonna talk about four. Oh, 'cause that's the best of them, is one of the basic fast gets you an answer right away models. So here's a chat I had with chat GT 4 0 4 oh. I just said, okay, what are some things that Gen AI isn't good at now, by the way, because I adjusted my settings, it said, Hey, do you want me to take on a certain role? Do you want me to ask five questions? No, actually this was a straightforward enough conversation. I didn't want it to do that. And boom, in 10 seconds, I get my answer. 4.0 is the model you go to for speed. It's the model that uses the le the least electricity and computing power from open AI's computers. And it gives you your answers right away. In the vast majority of situations. Chat, GBT four oh is your everyday go-to model for most of the work that we're doing. Oh three, any of the models that start with the letter is what they call a thinking or a reasoning model. And what that, uh, version of Chacha PD does is it makes itself wait. The computer scientists learned just through trial and error. This is how they're figuring all this stuff out. That if you type something in, if they force the computer to hold its horses and to actually spin its wheels a little bit to really consider, what did you mean when you wrote this question? What if I think about it this way? What if I think about it that way? If it just kind of sits on it and ponders it, you get a much more sophisticated answer. And that's pretty similar to how humans work, right? If we ask our one of our colleagues a question and they spit out the answer right away, you're not gonna get as sophisticated and as thoughtful a response as if they had really, uh, paused, considered the responses and come back. Now, these are still computers. So when I say pause and consider it, uh, in this case, I asked, um, I uploaded a survey and I asked it to do some thinking about what the survey is all about. So said, sure, let me think about it. It thought about it for a grand total of two minutes and 18 seconds, right? It's not actually taking hours, uh, that may come in the future someday, but right now, when you're a sophisticated, fancy computer taking two minutes and 18 seconds to think about something is actually quite substantially more than instantly giving me the response. So this is how it's thinking. It actually lets us know the user uploaded a file. It's writing itself some computer code to do some analysis. Anytime you see these black boxes chat, GBT is writing itself a little program. I don't know how to write any computer programs. I don't know what that means. I don't know what import pandas means. Some of you do. I do not. Uh, you know, JSON, these are kinds of, uh, computer code terms file types, okay? We're gonna start by loading the spreadsheet with Python that I know that's a computer language. This is all the thinking that Chet did in two minutes. The file seems to be a CSV exported from a, from a platform like Zoom. That's true. And so over two minutes, it did all of this thinking before it spit out the answer. And you can choose to watch it as its thinking. You can let it think on its own and go fix yourself a snack. Once it was done with its two minutes of thinking, then it said, okay, here's what I'm finding. And now it's starting to answer the question. We have insights, we have summaries. It started to actually give me some analysis on the survey that I uploaded. The point here is not the data analysis, we'll actually look more at that in a few minutes. But to understand the difference between Model 4.0, great for just spitting out a result very quickly. And oh three, the thinking model, the reasoning model that takes a minute and tries to best understand how to solve a more complicated problem. If you're looking for a brainstormed list of 50 games, that would be fun to play at a staff retreat 4.0 is terrific. If you are asking for a really thorough analysis of a tricky strategic problem that your organization is facing, you might wanna give that to O three. Let it think about it and present a much more comprehensive understanding of what's going on. Okay, so that is, uh, that's a look at personalizing chat, GPT really understanding just when you get into it, which features are you gonna turn on and off to play with. We looked at settings, we looked at custom instructions, how to share a chat, how to make something private, and then we had a little preliminary conversation about the basic models like a 4.0 and the reasoning models like an O three. Now let's talk about multimodal features. Uh, you know, usually I promise not to use the jargon. Uh, so I have to, uh, I have to apologize here. Even multimodal, you know, we could just say, uh, sound and pictures, uh, is just as easy to talk about. We're gonna talk about voice mode. We're gonna talk about what it means to ask AI to work with pictures, and then we're gonna talk about mobile, which is using, uh, a combination, but through your phone so that you can carry chat GPT with you and not only think about it, uh, as many of us have on our computers, on our desktops. You know, I'm delivering this recording right now, this presentation on my desktop, but we'll show a couple of other things. Okay? So let's have a, uh, let's have a conversation with chatt where we ask it to, um, to help me with a, a, a challenge that I'm facing. Hey, how you doing? Hey, I'm doing great. How about you? How's your day going so far? Yeah, My day's going pretty good. Look, I need your help. I need you to draft a memo to my board of directors. Um, I just want you to write in a very formal sense that I really, I still love the organization. I really believe in the mission and the long-term potential of this organization, but as it turns out, I just won $10 million in the lottery. And so I, uh, immediately submit my resignation and I am headed to the beach. Wow, congratulations on that win. Uh, that's definitely some exciting news. Um, let me put that into a formal memo for you. Um, here we go, two board of directors from Rich Lime Cider date, uh, subject resignation and next steps. Uh, dear members of the board, I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to inform you of a significant and unexpected development in my personal life. While I continue to hold our organization's mission and long-term potential in the highest regard, I must share that I have recently won a substantial lottery prize of $10 million. In light of this life changing event, I have made the difficult decision to step down from my role effective immediately. This decision comes with mixed emotions. As I have cherished my time working alongside each of you and contributing to our shared goals, I remain fully committed to ensuring a smooth transition, and we'll do everything in my power, Okay? Um, you can have a conversation. You can not only talk to your personal assistant here, but you can give very informal directions. And by the way, everything we just said appears in writing. So, uh, that memo to my board of directors, uh, it's not quite the case yet, uh, but that memo to my board of directors actually shows up right here in print and can be copied over into, you know, the word processor of your choice to get it out. Uh, the, the, the $10 million prize hasn't quite happened, but voice is available just by clicking this little button in the lower right voice mode comes up. And anything that you'd just rather stop having to type or anything that you'd rather have kind of an iterative, iterative conversation where you're brainstorming, you're thinking out loud, you can do as a conversation with chat GPT. So that's really just understanding the basics of voice mode. That's something that's great to play with. And images. So, you know, these are computers, we encourage you to think about them like a fake colleague. But chat, GBT is a computer. So it can think about pictures, it can think about spreadsheets and data just as easily as it thinks about the way you type in. So I had a hand, I, you know, I, I made just for this example here, a handwritten to-do list on a post-it note. It had a date, it had three things I might wanna do, and I just crossed one off My instructions were put this list in a spreadsheet and based on the visual cues indicate whether the task has been accomplished or not. So on this picture, I didn't say done, not done, I just crossed one out. And I'm expecting chat GPT to know what that means. Well, in fact, it was able to read my handwriting and very clearly indicate that yes, I did check my email already because it was crossed out, but I hadn't made the webinar slides and I hadn't cooked dinner. You can snap a photo of anything on a whiteboard. You can snap a photo of some handwritten notes that you took on a scrap of paper or an exercise where your team put up a hundred post-it notes on a wall and ask chat GPT to make sense of that cluttered information. In a graphic, you can also take a picture of a leaf and ask what kind of tree that might happen to be. Uh, but there is a lot of work that can be done by engaging in the visual aspect of the skill of a tool like chat, GBT. And that's part of that multimodal experience, right? Not just working through voice and through sound, but also thinking about what does it mean to share our own pictures and then ask it for help with that. Um, you can take a picture of your bookshelf and ask, uh, where to find those books or to find the reviews of every book on your bookshelf. I could do that with my, uh, with my books right here behind me. Okay, now let's do a little bit more of a, uh, a live demo. And, uh, I am gonna show, uh, what we call a multimodal mobile example. So I'm, I'm calling up my phone right here, and, uh, I've got my phone. You know, we have the, the, uh, chat. GPT visual looks pretty similar to what you see on my screen. Uh, you know what, let me stop sharing. I don't, I'm not gonna make you watch this in a, in a tiny window. I've got my phone here, uh, right in front of me. I'm gonna start the audio conversation with the same guy. Hey, how you doing today? There, I'm doing great. Thanks for asking. Uh, how about you? How's your day going so far? Yeah, it's going pretty good. I'm doing a live demo right now with, uh, folks that are learning about how to use AI in the nonprofit sector. Just do me a favor. Would you say hi to them really briefly in Korean? Of course. I hope we're all having a, a great time learning about AI and how it can help nonprofits. Lemme know if there's anything I can help with. Well, yeah, but do that. Welcome in Korean. Okay, great. Now I'm gonna turn on the video mode. So now you're seeing what I see. Um, now look at this. What is this exactly? And then, um, where could I buy one and how much would it cost me? Oh, that looks like an ergonomic mouse, probably from, uh, Logitech. Uh, you can find those on most online retailers like Amazon or any electronic store. They typically cost somewhere between 30 to $50, depending on the model. Okay, great. Thanks. Okay, so that is mobile use of chat, GPT, that app downloads for free. Whatever chat GPT account you have, uh, becomes part of your mobile access to chat GPT. And in addition to having that conversation walking around on the screen whenever you want, you also then have the opportunity to, uh, uh, use it, use its camera, use, its, um, ability to look at the world along with you. Okay, let me get my slides back up for you all and then we'll keep going. And I've got a couple more things that I definitely want to share with you today. Okay. So we've looked at voice mode, we've looked at sharing images. We've talked about how when you have your phone and the chat GPT app on your phone, you can do some interesting things using the mobile voice and vision. Now let's go even deeper and let's look at some of the features that get to that next level beyond just the kind of chat and conversation. We're gonna share a whole bunch of demos here. Um, I'm gonna share six different ways of using different features. I'm only gonna show one example for each feature. So this really is an introduction, a way to get started. Oh, and so here we go. Um, okay, where is my first one? Image generation. There have been substantial upgrades to the way chat. GPT is able to draw pictures. And right at the bottom of your screen, you see the option to engage with different tools. Image generation is one of those tools. Create an image. When you ask Chut to create an image, you can give it any kind of detailed instructions that you want. You can give it generic, uh, one sentence instructions, or if you happen to be someone with a real eye for design with real experience, you can give it paragraphs and paragraphs of instructions. You can tell it about photo quality and f-stop and the way the image and the backlight should be coming out of the, uh, of the horizon at Twilight Things, frankly, that I don't know much about in this case, I said, make a picture of our AI for Nonprofits Sprint in the style of one of those classic 1950s popular Mechanics magazine covers. You'll notice that if you have heard, hey, these AI photos always come out with all kinds of spelling mistakes, and they're kind of junkie, that is a thing of the past. Um, I'm not gonna say it never, uh, happens, but the vast majority of the time when you ask it to put words on the page, the words are spelled properly. These days they've found new ways of making the pictures. I said actually make an article. Do do something that looks like the inside of the magazine, gives you the entire, you know, several paragraphs. Every word is spelled exactly right now. I said, okay, let's do a more photorealistic one. Can you make a picture of 16 people on a zoom call? So, you know, not terrible. 16 people on a video call, they look pretty much like real humans. This, this is not a situation where people have extra fingers. You know, those sort of days where folks said the images were not sufficient quality, where it was very easy to, uh, to identify all the problems, those days are largely moving behind us. And so understanding the possibilities behind image generation is one of the real features of using, uh, of using a modern generative AI tool. Okay, let's talk about something really different. Let's talk about data analysis. So we looked earlier at what's possible with the, uh, with a tool like oh three, the model that thinks right, that goes ahead and, and puts some thought into the question. I uploaded a 4,000 row spreadsheet with survey information, the survey information that I shared with you on, uh, earlier rounds of our webinar where we've asked questions of a whole bunch of nonprofit staff to understand how they feel about ai. And I said specifically, there's one question we asked, what would you like AI to help you with? Help me do some quote, advanced data analysis. I am not a statistician. I am not someone who is capable of advanced data analysis. So pretty much the limit of my knowledge is the term advanced data analysis. But Chet has read the whole internet, so it knows quite a bit about what that means. I used one of those reasoning models oh three, and it thought about it just for a few seconds and said, first I need to think about that, then I need to think about that. Oh, it reminded me based on my settings. Hey, rich, do you want me to take on a certain role? Oh, yeah, I forgot to tell you. Be a research analyst. Okay. Hey Rich, do you want me to ask you five clarifying questions? Sure. It's asking me very relevant, specific questions, the kind of questions that I would hope the data analyst on my team would be asking me before going off and messing around with a spreadsheet. I just emailed them, okay, what do you like your visual preferences? But again, it's not a real person, it's a fake person. I can give very terse blunt answers. Get it done, buddy Thinking in this case means two minutes of thinking. I get very detailed understanding and perspectives about what it's doing. It's writing itself, all that computer code as it's analyzing my survey. I don't have any idea what any of this means. I'm showing it to you for reference. I would probably collapse this menu. I don't even need to watch it again. I would go off and get a lemonade two minutes later. I get the analysis. Here are the most requested, requested functions, right? People weren't choosing from a dropdown menu in my survey, they were typing in sentences or paragraphs. It's doing text analysis, sophisticated things, sentiment analysis, what were people looking for? It's creating this heat map, which I don't even fully understand yet, but which seems pretty cool. What is it that people wanna do with AI mapped against? Were they skeptical of it? Were they excited about it? And then I get a table that maps, again, a lot of people talking about writing and editing, they're more curious than they are concerned, but most people don't actually seem to have an emotion. They're not saying that they're enthusiastic, they just want to help them with their writing. And here's some headline insights. I didn't give it a template. I didn't say Here's what advanced data analysis means to me, because I don't know what advanced data analysis really means. But as a five minute example, if my, uh, you know, PhD data analyst, uh, wasn't able to show up for work that day, or if I work at a small nonprofit and we've never had a PhD advanced data analyst, it's pretty great to have something like this in a five minute exchange. Even just as a way to begin, even just as a way to, uh, start off a conversation among our executive team data analysis using code, we're gonna talk about the deep research function. So again, looking at the tools at the bottom, we talked about creating an image run deep research or use research is another feature that is more recently available in chat g PT models. Uh, and particularly for the paid chat G PT models where you have more access. But the, the basic paid subscription is the $20 a month subscription research allows you to type any question and then tell Chate where you want it to find the answer from, not from its generic knowledge, but from some trusted source. So you tell it, you want it to do research down here at the bottom, and then at the bottom you choose the source. I ran this report based on web research. So this is like having an analyst, right? This is the kind of thing where in an investment bank or a consultancy, anyone who has the name analyst spends a ton of their time just surfing the web and trying to come up with real profiles of what's going on in fundraising in programs. We might have a, a junior staff person try to do a little bit of a research memo, understanding a new social work protocol or a new series of funders who might help, uh, a particular kind of work. In this case, I actually said, write me a research report based on internet research, what nonprofits can do if they're looking for AI translation services. And particularly we want to make sure we find a translation service that protects privacy. It asks me some clarifying questions. And then the research one takes sometimes a substantially long time. So in this case, this research project took it 18 minutes. You can actually close out of chat GPT and go work on your email, go work on something else and come back to it later when it's ready. But over the course of 18 minutes, it found 35 different websites that had something useful to share about nonprofits looking for AI based language translation services. And it told me all about its thinking as it went to do that research project. So if you've heard talk about AI agents, and I'm not gonna get too far into it, but for those who that's a familiar concept, the idea that AI will increasingly not just need to sit there in front of you in an active conversation, but that these tools will be able to kind of go off, do some business and come back later much more the way a real colleague works. Most of the examples I've been showing previous to this, it's as if the colleague had to sit at your desk the whole time, which isn't really the maximum helpful situation, right? Sometimes you need to kick the colleague outta your office, let them work on the project and come back and visit you later. This is starting in that direction. It goes off, it spends 18 minutes. It's, uh, thinking about what it needs to do. It's going to these 35 websites. And then it writes me a 20 page paper solutions for AI translation. You can share this paper, you can get a PDF of this paper, but it's writing its analysis and it's giving me full citations almost sentence by sentence. So if I have any concern that it got something wrong that it misread, uh, I wouldn't necessarily send this paper to an elected official without reviewing it. But if there's important findings in there, if there's links for my colleagues, every single one of them can be clicked. You can go to the source website and make sure that you believe in the citation, but this opportunity to have a 20 page research paper written on any topic you want, whenever you want, can be amazingly transformative. So that's the research function, the deep research function, uh, within chat GPT and some other off the shelf AI tools. I wanna talk about Canvas. Canvas. Another fairly recent evolution on chat GPT. This is that same, uh, thread of conversation where we were Ana, where we were analyzing the spreadsheet, the, uh, the long research spreadsheet with thousands of points of information about staff, about nonprofit staff and what their ideas are in Canvas, you basically get a mini word processor that lives inside Chat GBT. So one of the things that's been great about Chat GT is you can get it to write you a memo. You can get it to write you, uh, a letter to your boss, but it writes the whole thing at once. And in the past, if you wanted to make a change, it had to write the whole thing again from scratch. With Canvas, you ask it to write something and it did here, it wrote this thing called AI Webinar Poll Report. And then you get what basically looks like a mini, uh, word processing document where you can engage with chat GPT at any point of it. So I can select this paragraph and then just translate this paragraph into Mandarin Chinese. And so it'll think about it, but instead of putting it into a long chat or having to rewrite the entire essay, it just works on that one paragraph. You can say, make this one paragraph or sentence sound more professional. Turn this one bullet point into three paragraphs, turn these six paragraphs into two bullet points. But it's a way of having a direct editing opportunity. And this is called Canvas. This is the Canvas tool, and you just have to ask for it. When you're talking to chue, you can say, put that in Canvas and then you can download this in a certain format. You can copy it, you can forward it to friends. You can also use Canvas for line by line edits. So you can upload a speech you've drafted and say in Canvas, make recommendations just like a track changes feature, make recommendations sentence by sentence for how you would change it, but don't make those changes yet. I just want to see. And so it's a way of engaging with a kind of text document directly in the chat GPT world. You don't have to copy it over somewhere else. So that is called the Canvas Tool. Okay? The last two, uh, features I wanna show you, the most sophisticated ones are back to that idea of how do we have conversations over time where this fake colleague has not gotten a lobotomy every time they come back into our office, where it's not like starting from scratch. If you are in an HR role and you're asking, uh, confidential, but questions about how to manage conflict or how to work towards the annual staff retreat. If you're in a fundraising role and you're trying to do different grant proposals every single week, it gets exhausting to have to come back to every conversation and remind chatt who I am, who this organization is, what our context is. This first tool is called Projects. So in chatt, you can go create a new project anytime here. And what a project does in chat GPT is, it kind of creates a little chat, GPT folder, an area of work where you can put a bunch of stuff and it will always remember that stuff every time you come back to that project. So we could have a project on our annual staff retreat into a project. You can put files. So for the annual staff retreat, we might put some basic context on our organization. Let's throw up a couple of annual reports. Let's throw up our tax returns because hey, there's some information about who we are. Let's put in the bios of our leadership team. Let's put in the survey we just did about employee satisfaction. Those all can just sit there as project files on this, uh, annual retreat project. Then we're gonna give it some specific instructions. It, Hey, this is a project about planning our annual staff retreat. It's gonna be at such and such a place at such and such a time. These are the goals we have. This is the number of people who are coming in this project. Your goal is to act like a committee of HR staff people as well as the leadership of every department in our organization and give good advice. Those might be the instructions, right? In this case, I give it, you know, the same kind of instructions. I always want to, you know, I always do. Don't forget to ask me my questions, et cetera. But the other thing that you can put in a project and listen, uh, this is where it gets a little, uh, the vocabulary gets a little tricky. You can put individual chat GPT conversations as source documents into a project. So if you're just gonna go try to create a project today or tomorrow based on this conversation we're having right now, you can look at your history, look at your history bar, all the different conversations you've had with chat GT recently, and you can drag or move any conversation into a project. So if you've actually already, or you're about to have a conversation about the food options at the annual retreat, at the icebreaker sessions, at the annual retreat, at the uh, signage, we're gonna need to post up in multiple languages at the annual retreat. Every one of these could be a different conversation that lives within the project. And not only is it a nice way to organize things so you can always get back to it, it adds to the memory to the short term, uh, brain of what this project is. So when we're talking about the icebreaker sessions, it actually remembers what the food options are. And it might say, Hey, you're giving everybody peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Let's play this great icebreaker that I know called Peanut butter and jelly. So this project's opportunity is a way to really create, uh, a focused area for something that you're working on across the organization and put a lot of different pieces into it so you don't have that Groundhog Day experience that starting from scratch every single time. Chachi PT projects similarly, but with a little bit of a different angle and the more of the original, sort of the OG version of what some of that is. Um, and again, we get stuck a little bit with, uh, with some of the names of these things. So the unfortunately named feature GPTs, so chat GPT has one of its 15 great features called GPTs. Um, but what A GPT is is a very easy to build, almost like a mini app, but don't let the idea of creating your own app intimidate you because anybody can create one of these things in five minutes without knowing any kind of special computer code or anything like that. So, uh, here is a GPT. And again, you can go right to the side and you say, oh, uh, sorry, actually here, um, uh, let's see. You can edit your GPTs, you can create a new GPT Oh, right here. Yes, you go to GPTs, you can create a new GPT on the left, uh, bar. Here's A-G-P-T-I created that acts as an advisory board. Acts almost like a personal board of directors for the AI project that I manage. So let's look at it. Let's edit this one. You can see behind the scenes, see the guts. This GPT is a specially styled version of chat GPT just for me and for a particular purpose. I can give it a name. Okay, you're gonna be my AI project advisory board. You are gonna be the senior advisory board to a startup nonprofit effort led by me. Here are our goals. Read the attached documents. Bring in multiple viewpoints. Philanthropist, nonprofit leader, business leader, right? It's a computer. So it can actually be a bo it doesn't have to just be one role. I can tell it you're an advisory group of many people. You can upload documents, the same kinds of things, background on our organization, grant proposals, anything that would give it useful context. You tell it what sort of features it can have. 'cause you're kind of creating a mini version of, uh, of a chat GPT. And then every time I come to my AI project advisory board, it's gonna act like that group of people with that background knowledge. So pretend I had a board meeting, I can just say, what should we do in the fall right away? It knows who we are, it knows our organization. It's giving me strategic guidance on what our nonprofit should be doing in the fall. Now, this is a little bit too fast on the trigger. I would want to give it more context. I would want to give it more guidance, but this is like having an advisory board that I can wake up at three in the morning and give me feedback on right away. Okay? You can create unlimited GPTs, you can create them by department. You can have a, uh, philanthropic foundation, GPT, that's just stacked with instructions and information to help you write grant proposals to private foundations. You can have another one for government contracts. You can have another one that is really built around your, uh, HR manual that is designed to answer quick questions. Unlike projects, gpt are designed to be shared. You can create any app and then share it and decide, do I want this little mini app only to be for me? Do I wanna share it just with a small group of people who I'm gonna name or do I actually wanna put it out on the web? And in fact, there's a GPT store, just like an app store. You can look at things that other private individuals have created using this GPT feature. And again, chat. GPT is the overall program. I'm talking about these little apps that they call GPTs. You can share them with a few people, you can share them with the world if you think you've done something useful for your organization that you want everyone to have access to. But these GPTs are an opportunity to again, escape that groundhog day feeling where every time you come back to the chat, you're starting from scratch. So we've looked at the tools for creating images. We've looked at what's possible, particularly in the, the reasoning or thinking mode. We used O three to do some data analysis. We've looked at writing a research report, even if it took 20 minutes to go off and do that. We're using the Canvas tool, which is like a, a text editing tool right in there in the middle of chat GPT. And we've talked about how projects and custom gpt are ways to permanently put in some information in a way that might allow you or an entire department or entire organization, uh, to come back and not have to start a conversation from scratch. There are many wonderful organizations doing additional trainings at a even deeper level that do have ongoing training opportunities. The Open AI Academy has a wealth of resources from us, from other partner organizations, one of which is, uh, a great place called Decoded Futures, that is running training programs for nonprofits, especially in the New York area. Our AI for nonprofits Sprint continues to enroll nonprofit organizations from across the country and around the world in opportunities to dive deep in learning more about artificial intelligence. And today we've talked about how do you start with that incremental approach. You know, even if you're not hiring a data scientist and building a new tool, what can we do? What can our colleagues do with the tools that are affordable and in front of us already? How do you go ahead and just adjust your account settings and make it personal? How do you use things like speech and vision? And then how do we really dive into those advanced features that are actually part of the basic model already to get a lot more done in service of our mission and in support of our terrific colleagues? So today was the third session. Uh, again, hopefully you've already seen sessions one and two. If not, feel free to, you know, make a day of it. Uh, pause here. Go watch one or both of those others. But it has been great to have you here for advanced features of Chat GPT, and, uh, best of luck on your future, working with the tools of artificial intelligence and serving the very important mission, doing the work that you do every day. Thank you so much.

</details>
