# 3 Steps to Basic AI Literacy: AI Ethics, Policy, Safety

<!-- vimeo: 1096738238 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1096738238)

<details>
<summary>자막: 3 Steps to Basic AI Literacy: AI Ethics, Policy, Safety</summary>

Hi there, everyone. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. We are on the internet, so who knows where you are, what time it might be, but I am very happy to be sharing this conversation with you. My name is Rich Lime Cider. I am the director of the AI for Nonprofits Sprint at the Fund for the City of New York. And we are thrilled to be here in partnership with the Open AI Academy. Uh, presenting this second in a series of three conversations about basic AI literacy for the nonprofit sector. We're gonna have a pretty robust conversation today. Uh, part two, again, of three parts talking about ethics, safety, and other issues that often come up when we, uh, get deep into conversation about the possibilities of ai. Uh, our first session in the series was really a, a, a deeper dive into the basics, lots of case studies, examples, and definitions. If you haven't had a chance to review the first session, AI 1 0 1, now's actually a great time to pause this recording, to hop on over, check out the basics. Um, we will be using a lot of the vocabulary, a lot of the frameworks, a lot of the standards, and we will be presuming a level of comfort with tools like chat. GPT that we introduced in that first session. Today is really about diving in, uh, on the narrower conversation, talking about ethics, policy, and safety. And then of course, we hope you'll come back and, and join us again for our third session in the series, really diving into advanced features of chat GPT, but today, ethics, policy and Safety. Uh, a little bit more about me, I always tell folks by name is Rich Lime Cider. If there was a drink made out of limes, it would be lime cider. That's how you can pronounce my, uh, my last name. I'm a New York City public school guy, born and raised, uh, here in New York. I have a MBA degree and most of a social work degree. And most recently, I spent a good number of years leading a, a terrific immigration legal organization called Safe Passage Project, a place that provides free lawyers to immigrant children. But over the past couple of years, I have come on as what's known as an entrepreneur in residence at the Fund for the City of New York, and now lead a project called the AI for Nonprofits Sprint, where I've had the great pleasure and privilege of working closely with the team at the Open AI Academy to Bring, uh, perspectives more broadly to nonprofit staff, really around the country and around the world. Again, our deeper conversation about AI basics and vocabulary can be found in that first session, AI 1 0 1. But I do wanna review just a couple of basic terms. Um, so to begin with, there are really only four key terms that we feel strongly most nonprofit staff ought to know, or certainly at a minimum can allow you to have a more robust conversation about what's going on these days in the world of ai. Now, there are dozens, hundreds of terms, a ton of jargon. You can absolutely take a 10 session training class. You could get an entire degree in computer science and artificial intelligence. But the truth is to really use AI in a day-to-day way and have a pretty, uh, comprehensive conversation with friends, colleagues, others you only know need to know these four terms. So the first, the most basic understanding is what do we mean when we say artificial intelligence? And the truth is, that's a term that's been around for decades. It just means any kind of machine that we are trying to get to act more like a human being. And so with that kind of definition, you can actually understand why even mechanical devices from the 1950s and sixties that scientists were trying to get to play chess by moving the pieces around, could be called artificial intelligence, but certainly anything in your streaming media or your social media feeds right now when they are recommending what TV program you ought to watch next. Those are all examples of ai. And that's been true for long before tools like CHATT became available to the public. Machine learning was a more recent development in artificial intelligence, which said, we can get the computers to help us build these tools. And so once they were able to start getting the computers to write their own software to move forward on these advances in artificial intelligence, we were using machine learning as opposed to building that chess making machine. A large language model is an even more recent development. And essentially a large language model was the discovery by a bunch of scientists that if you took a modern computer, something with a lot of speed, a lot of storage, and you pointed it at the entire internet and said, go take three months or six months, go read the whole internet, go read every webpage, every scientific article, but also every blog post, and maybe things including conspiracy theories. But if you went out there and read the entire internet, when those computer programs came back, they were able to engage in a conversation in a tremendously more human-like way than any other software program ever had before. Finally, generative AI is the kind of artificial intelligence that we're really talking about here today. Generative AI tools like chat GPT are the kind of AI that allows us to create something new where it never existed before. So whereas the old kinds of AI might have looked up what TV show you might have wanted to watch, chat, GPT can write a sentence, a poem, a paragraph, an entire research report from scratch, generating new content. I also do wanna remind folks of this concept of the hype cycle. This is something that sociologists have been talking about for a couple of decades now, and it's particularly relevant when we talk about some of the concerns that are being raised these days when it comes to artificial intelligence. There has been an observation that whenever a really interesting and pretty innovative new technology comes out, there are these swings. First, there tend to be a lot of people who really over, um, maybe oversell what's possible with the technology. This new thing is gonna change the whole world. Everything's gonna be fixed, we won't have any problems, and it's all gonna happen by next Tuesday. And then reasonably, in some ways, there's a backlash and there's often some very negative or very substantial concerns about a new technology. Uh, it's gonna destroy human creativity or never gonna, you know, think again, or there's gonna be much more substantial challenges to, you know, the whole world. And this technology is the devil. Typically, for the last few new technologies that we've seen come out, things do tend to wind up somewhere more in the middle, and perhaps the original promises, the most inflated expectations never quite come to pass. But also the most extreme concerns often seem to not be, uh, quite as relevant as some people were worried. And we wind up somewhere more in the middle line. Now, this is not a scientific rule. This is sort of an observation. And so I can't really say whether this is exactly how artificial intelligence, generative artificial intelligence is gonna play out, but I do find it a useful reminder and framework when trying to consider some of the more inflated claims that we see all around the world, uh, about artificial intelligence these days, because there really is quite a lot of conversation. Another framework I just wanna remind folks of is this idea of exponential AI versus incremental ai. And the conversations we have in this three part series are really focused on incremental ai. Exponential AI says we are gonna build exciting new tools. We might have self-driving cars, we might help scientists cure cancer in the social sector. We might create, uh, bots and companions that have mental health conversations with vulnerable populations. Those are interesting, exciting possibilities. They certainly require a lot of energy attention, and right now some expense to make sure we get them done. Truly excellently with near 100% confidence and accuracy. Certainly in the nonprofit sector, in the social sector, we would never want to put any member of a vulnerable population in front of an AI tool that we weren't extremely confident was gonna treat them properly. But there is in fact, a whole other world of artificial intelligence right now available to us that we call incremental ai. And there are ways that AI can help most of us in our jobs in a day-to-day way that frankly don't even raise some of the same, uh, level of ethical or other concerns. We all use complicated software tools all the time. Most of us have a smartphone that can do all kinds of really interesting things. We use, uh, spreadsheets, we use word processing documents for most of these tools. And for generative AI tools, we can get a lot out of it, frankly, even if it's not always a hundred percent reliable every minute of the day. There's a lot of things we do. Writing a memo, engaging with staff, you know, drafting a, the framework of a spreadsheet where maybe 95% reliability is actually fine. What we do know, however, is that nonprofit staff are using ai. This is not a theoretical conversation. This is, this should not in any environment be thought of as a potential down the road. You know, nonprofit leaders should not be in a, in a small room thinking, well, someday our staff might wind up using ai. So let's take our time and really figure out what our perspectives are. We know that many of us, many of you all on this call right now on this, uh, in this video conference, many of our colleagues are already using ai. Sometimes they actually have concerns even as they're using ai. And almost all nonprofit workers are using AI at work with no guidance or instructions from their leadership. How do we know this? At the AI for nonprofit Sprint, we've been doing a survey over the past year. Uh, our latest results, we have almost 4,000 results from more than a hundred nonprofits. And the results are very clear. The vast majority of staff have used AI at work. The vast majority of nonprofit staff do not have guidance from their employer on what is or isn't okay in using AI at work. And so what that means is we wind up with this phenomenon that, uh, one of the best writers and thinkers about AI these days. A a professor at the University of Pennsylvania named Ethan Molik calls the phenomenon of secret cyborgs. A secret cyborg is a person who's using this kind of advanced technology, but not telling anybody about it. We have staff at our organizations that are using AI that are pretty good at it. Actually, our survey shows that 25% of staff think they're actually pretty good already at using artificial intelligence, but they don't have rules. And so without the guidance or permission, they keep it to themselves 'cause they don't wanna get in trouble. And that has two negative consequences. One is they might in fact be using AI in a way we wish they weren't. Maybe they're putting information into a tool that we would rather they didn't, or that might even violate a state contract or a rule about how we engage with certain populations. On the other hand, particularly for those 25% of our colleagues who may be doing really interesting things, because they're keeping it to themselves, we're not learning from their experimentation. So we have this free r and d capacity, this research and development colleagues who are doing cool things, and they won't tell their managers, they won't tell their colleagues 'cause they don't wanna get in trouble. When we run that survey, we ask people, do you have any concerns about using AI at work? 50% actually say they don't, but some staff do, and they write down really thoughtful things. We have reviewed all of their concerns. And to this point, every single thing we hear always rolls up into these seven main categories. Uh, if you have new ideas, if you have things that you don't think roll up into these categories, would love for you to reach out and let me know. But this is actually held pretty steady for the past several months. These are the three, uh, these are the seven categories of where people have concerns, and we're gonna go through all of this today, but staff do need guidance. They, uh, they are often working for nonprofits that are basically procrastinating, right? Nonprofit leadership may not be sure what guidance to distribute. And it is true that for a formal full AI policy, some of our organizations do need to take some time. Uh, if you're operating in a highly regulated environment, if you're running a foster care agency, you may have laws at the city, the state, the federal level, a county level, you may have contracts with particular, uh, organizations or funders, and you have to make sure that any policy you distribute is well aligned to all of those things. That makes a ton of sense. That said, since most of your staff are already using ai, we really can't wait another six months to give them any guidance at all. So our strongest recommendation is that every nonprofit that hasn't already needs to issue at least placeholder guidelines, a series of bullet points. And this should happen now, uh, like next Tuesday, but a series of basic guidelines to help staff know that AI is okay, but we have to follow some certain general protocols, at least in the interim until we get around to issuing that full policy that we promised. Here's what we recommend. This is, uh, the AI for nonprofit sprint's, basic outline of AI use guidelines, and I will say quite a number of the hundred plus nonprofits that are members of our program simply tweaked these six guidelines for their, uh, for their population, their work, and just turned around and sent this out as an all staff email. And you are welcome to do the same right now. Feel free to take these to make small edits or no edits at all and get these out to staff tomorrow. We wanna tell people that AI use and experimentation are encouraged, right? We want to foster learning, we wanna foster engagement. It's okay to do things as long as we play by the rules, but let's start as we're still in a learning, uh, scenario. If we don't have a full agreement, if our legal counsel or our IT department aren't fully comfortable yet, let's just start by telling all staff that for the time being, don't put any confidential information into these tools. That's an okay place to be for the next few months. So we can tell folks, don't put any names and addresses of any of our patients or clients. Don't put, uh, social security numbers. If you're in the HR department. Uh, you can do survey analysis with an anonymized spreadsheet looking at, you know, asking AI to help review a survey of where should our annual retreat be. But you can do that without putting in the names and the social security numbers of our colleagues. We need to remind people, and we are learning every day that this is a reminder that you know, has to constantly go out. You have to remind people that they remain, uh, responsible for any work, even if AI helps them. Just like our accountants are still responsible for the work, even if they use a calculator or a spreadsheet, just like our fundraising departments are still responsible for the grant proposal, even if they hired an outside grant writer to help, just like our program teams are responsible for the work, even if an intern helped start it, if you use ai, you are still responsible. So handing something off to your boss or to a colleague or to a client and then saying, whoops, there's a mistake. It's not my fault because AI made a mistake is really not acceptable. The staff person has to be responsible, wanna remind people that most of our organizations have existing policies, and any policy we already have is still relevant. When it comes to disclosure. Our recommendation is let's have a hundred percent, uh, disclosure within our organizations. We wanna be learning organizations. We want to be the kind of places where we're able to teach and learn from one another. And so for now, if you use AI to set that agenda for next week's staff meeting, let's just make sure you mention it or even put a little asterisk at the bottom of the agenda saying, I used AI to help me with this chat. GPT gave me, you know, 10 different versions and I picked the one I liked the best. Uh, we have to make sure that we don't criticize our colleagues and that there's no, you know, uh, side eye, uh, when people do wind up disclosing. Because if we're gonna encourage them to be more public and to let us know when they're using ai, we can't send them right back into hiding by somehow acting as though we're not okay with it. But let's encourage people to disclose things internally. And then externally, we should take a slightly different perspective. You know, there are outside partners who are not comfortable with the world of AI that we might be in right now, and we do need to respect where people are. If you are writing a grant proposal and the funder says, we do not want you to use AI in this, uh, proposal, don't use ai. If you are coaching a young person to apply for a job and the job says you may not use AI in your cover letter, then we should not be coaching the young person to use AI in their cover letter. If it's unclear, if we're a little unsure, then we need to issue guidance to our staff that they should be checking in with a supervisor. Can I, or is it okay to be using AI in a particular external context or another? So again, we have these seven most reported concerns, and we're really gonna go through all of them and try to at least raise perspectives. Talk a little bit about context. These are all deeply thoughtful concerns that we could have a several hour conversation and a, uh, really thoughtful perspectives from many different directions. But I at least wanna raise some of the things we've learned over the past year in engaging with thousands of non pop profit staff and trying to understand more deeply where the tools, uh, do and don't have, have strengths and issues of, of weakness. Okay? So when we look at these seven areas of concern, they actually break down into three buckets. First, we look at errors, bias, and issues of data privacy or ownership. Uh, even surveillance. I think of these as the shorter term issues. Really, you have to be confident that if you're gonna use an AI tool, you're even getting anything of quality out of it, right? Is it even worth using these generative AI tools? I, why should I bother to use chat GBT if I'm gonna be concerned that I'm getting the wrong answers or a biased answer, or that anything I type in there might be used against me? So we have to address these issues and when our colleagues bring them up, we have to make sure we can be thoughtful about it from the perspective of errors and bias, uh, first of all, there were in fact some high profile concerns several years ago where tools could be invited and could share things that were quite biased, uh, where because of the data they had been trained on, uh, these tools, remember a large language model learns how to be more human by going out there and reading everything in the world. Well, guess what? Humanity has a lot of biases, has mistakes, has errors, has really troubling information out there. And so before all of things were, these things were necessarily addressed before companies started being much more, uh, affirmative about trying to tune out some of these real concerns. There were some very obvious concerns about errors and bias, but these things actually do still continue to happen there. There are absolutely situations where you might ask an AI tool to do something and not get exactly the right answer or not get the right citation. We also need to remember the context, which is that we have lots of human colleagues who, uh, express biases and who make mistakes. So the question is probably, at least from my perspective, not whether these, uh, AI tools are completely infallible, but how do we approach them? Is it still useful to live in a scenario where, you know, as, as one way of looking at it, every single staff person at our organization gets a PhD level intern? Um, is that still useful? Even if one out of 20 or one out of 40 times that in turn makes a mistake? Um, I would argue there's a lot of scenarios where that is still a great deal. And we also recommend from the AI for nonprofit Sprint, that if you start with that incremental approach, you maintain yourself in a situation where you are continuing to provide that human, that person who is reviewing all of the work. When we talk about data, data privacy, there's a lot of things that, um, are important to know and then also to think about from a context perspective. So again, as a reminder, our recommendation is in some ways, let's take the, the confidential data issue off the table for the next few months. If we're really in an organization that needs to go more deeply and understand issues of data privacy, confidentiality, what if we just say, let's not talk about it at all. Let's just tell everybody that for the next few months, nothing that feels concerning or confidential or private gets put into these tools, period. Well, that actually takes a lot of concerns off the table. There's still a tremendous amount of work you can do, right? You can still upload your own resume and ask it to generate a bio for your next conference. You can still work with AI to, uh, do analysis of the anonymous staff survey in a spreadsheet and move forward towards planning for your organization's retreat. So many different examples. Again, if you check out our first session, certainly if you check out our third session, you're gonna see dozens of examples of ways that nonprofits can use AI even within that incremental privacy protecting framework. We do also think that the company that you're working with does matter. Uh, several companies are very intentionally working within existing privacy, uh, governmental frameworks, things like the GDPR in the European Union, uh, frameworks like SOC one, SOC two, uh, hipaa. If that doesn't mean anything to you, talk to your IT staff. Talk to your, your program or your healthcare staff to understand. And when you're working with one of the larger, more reputable companies, and OpenAI is one of those companies, when they make that commitment to, uh, affiliate with one of those national or international standards, um, in my mind there is a much greater case to be made that you can have a level of trust as opposed to a company that maybe no one's heard of or we're not exactly sure what standards they are promising to adhere to. And we do wanna remind people that every one of these tools, and this is definitely true for chat, GPT does have privacy settings. You, so just like any other software tool, there's a little settings button. It looks like a gear just like almost every other software tool we use. If you're using the free version of chat GPT, you gotta go in and click the button and says, please do not train your future versions of chat GPT on my data. And so if that's important to you, you can go in right now, click that little button, and we have a promise that they will not be using our data for any future purposes. Turns out, when you're using one of the paid versions, that button is actually already clicked, but you have the same access to the settings. So again, as I said, OpenAI and the other major US companies that are offering, uh, the most prominent generative AI models chatbots, they are basically promising the same level of data security as they do with all of their other tools. So, you know, OpenAI provides chat GPT to the company Microsoft. So if you are using the AI tool, Microsoft copilot, uh, that's really chat. GPT snuck in on the backend. And Microsoft promises that you are gonna be just as private with your information in using their AI tool as we are with their spreadsheets or with their Word documents or their cloud providers. We really have not seen evidence in the past couple of years of leaks of secret private information that is somehow getting into negative hands from the open AI perspective. In particular, I talked about some of these, uh, national international standards and you know, if you, and particularly if you're sort of a, uh, in the know, in the kind of it, uh, security world, um, which is not actually my world, I'm much more on the program side of nonprofits, but I, you know, I do know that this, uh, if you go to this website, trust.openai.com, you can understand more about the, the national and international standards that OpenAI is aligning with. Okay? So those were the first three, that was the first batch. Short-term concerns, should we even use ai? Then we think of what are the medium term concerns that our colleagues often have in thinking about ai? And for me, when we looked at these seven, uh, these seven issues that come up most frequently, we think about overreliance and loss of skills. You know, are our staff gonna actually forget how to do things? Are our junior staff gonna never learn how to do things because they're overreliant on this tool that seems to do everything for them? And in fact, might we lose our jobs? Now, I have to point out that the con that these two concerns are kind of diametrically opposed to the first three concerns. And so when you think about something like the hype cycle, right? Those first three concerns, all sound sounded reasonable, but those first three concerns were all basically around the idea that maybe AI is junk and can't actually do anything that's useful. The second two con, the second batch of concerns, also very reasonable sounding are kind of based on the idea that AI is actually very good, does a really good job, and that's why it might be a threat. So these are all reasonable, thoughtful things to talk about. Um, to me it doesn't quite make sense to think that all five of these can be true at the same time, right? We can't be just as concerned about AI not being useful at all and then being super concerned because AI is really useful. Nevertheless, individually, every one of these is a reasonable and thoughtful thing to talk about. And so let's talk about the overreliance, the loss of skills, and let's also talk about job displacement. So the first thing that I wanna raise, and, and especially as a father of, of of school aged kids myself, is that the classroom is a very different environment than the workplace. And so a lot of the conversations we're having in society, and I think perfectly reasonable conversations are about what does it mean in a teaching environment when a young person, for example, can write an essay at a college level in two minutes, uh, without having to do a lot of the thinking, a lot of the, the, um, struggling that is important to the learning, right? Our classroom teachers aren't asking for book reports because they need a summary of the book. They don't need to read 30 copies of the summary of Tom Sawyer every year, right? They're doing it because we want the students to stretch and challenge their own thinking. That's not always the case in the workplace. And I do think we have to have an honest conversation about what's really happening right now with professional development. So if we are in a workplace where we are really being very thoughtful about professional oppor, professional development opportunities, particularly for junior staff. So for example, if we, uh, need to write a grant proposal and we are insisting that our junior staff start from a blank page because we want them to develop their writing skills, if that's a part of how we operate in HR in a department, then we probably want to ask them not to use AI because we want them to struggle. We want them to start from scratch. We want them to build those skills. If our standard operating procedure in our fundraising department is even for a junior staff person, we always kind of take last year's grant proposal and we just edit it a little bit for this year's grant proposal, then maybe professional development isn't actually our number one priority. And it's not so bad to have a tool that allows us to reduce the amount of time on certain administrative skills and allows us to free up the time on the direct human interaction. Right? You know, my, uh, some of my favorite examples, uh, particularly in the context of the work I was doing as an executive director, I would love, I would've loved for my social workers to be able to dramatically reduce the amount of time they are spending on administrative paperwork, on letters they were writing to school principals that were incredibly boring and repetitive. And if that allowed one of my social workers to have an extra three or four hours a week to have direct communication conversation and engagement with our clients, that would've been completely transformative. And so we can have that conversation about professional development, but we should also think about the fact that, you know, some of us were told going to school years ago, Hey, you have to learn all this math. 'cause it's not like you're ever gonna walk around with a calculator in your pocket all the time. And of course, now we all walk around with a calculator on our pocket all the time. I also wanna highlight that there have been some early reports, uh, particularly that there could be a psychologically harmful level of dependence from vulnerable populations in terms of constant interaction with AI tools. And again, I think, uh, especially when it comes to working with vulnerable populations, we need to make sure that we're being thoughtful about that. I think for the most part, my hope is that that's less of an issue when it comes to most of us and our colleagues in the workplace. And then when it comes to job displacement. So again, now, you know, moving past the idea of what if AI uh, isn't useful at all and doesn't work at all to what if it's actually really good, might people lose their jobs? I will say there are very real legitimate concerns. There's a lot of research going on about, uh, certain jobs in the private sector that might in fact be at risk. There's also some equal, uh, thinking and perspective about jobs that will be created, about what it will mean to be a person who does have the ability to use AI and to have the ability to get more done. And that a person with AI might be someone who's much more capable than someone who tries to persist in a job without having these basic AI skills. But my particular focus and concern is on us in the nonprofit sector, in the social sector. And for me, what I will say is I almost never have the privilege of working with a nonprofit organization, an NGO that comes to me and says, Hey Rich, I just want you to know we have all the resources we need to serve every person we would like to serve. That never happens. I only really ever get to meet organizations that are telling me, um, gosh, we can only serve 20, 30% of the people we would like to be serving. So to me, the opportunity to engage with artificial intelligence is a chance to help our staff fight burnout. Can we take some of these really boring, onerous, soul crushing administrative burdens off of our staff's desk and allow them to get much more towards the human engagement part of the job? And can we also serve more people? Can we find a way in a time where resources are particularly challenged, where many organizations are, uh, at risk? Can we do more with the same resources? Can we serve more people? And so I think as long as nonprofit leaders make an explicit declaration that we are not interested in learning more about these AI tools so that we can cut half of the social work department, because what would be the point? We're already not serving enough people in our social work department. If we can make this declaration that our goal is to fight burnout and to serve more people, uh, then I'm much less concerned, frankly, about job displacement in do job displacement in the social sector than I am, uh, in other parts of society. And again, this third category, you know, maybe the longer term perspective, the longer term concerns, we are reading a lot about the potential environmental impacts of, uh, creating AI tools, using ai, particularly from an electricity, from a water perspective. And there are some concerns, you know, bigger picture. Um, so environmental impact. There are very thoughtful perspectives, and there's also a million articles and blog posts trying to get to the bottom of understanding what's going on. As far as I can tell, it is absolutely true that AI requires a lot of electricity and water ai. These generative AI tools are basically run out of these huge computer warehouses called data centers, giant buildings that just have computer on top of computer so they can get all that work done, right? You can't go and read the entire internet with your home laptop. And when we do a a when we type a a prompt, when we are doing work with ai, you can't get that done with sort of a little laptop at the OpenAI headquarters. And there were some early estimates saying that, uh, if you tried to do some back of the envelope math, that, uh, doing something in chat, GPT took more electricity than it would if you were just searching for something in Google, for example. Now, uh, OpenAI has come out more recently and said, actually, that's not true. And they've released some of their own internal research, which says differently, which I think is, is perfectly thoughtful. It is a fact that data centers at this point are consuming 4% of all the electricity in the United States, and there are some predictions, and it does seem based on current trends that that could double or even triple. We might be seeing something like 10% of all the electricity in the United States coming from these computer warehouses, and that's a, that's a large single source of electricity use. It is also true that there's a lot of other stuff we do that uses a ton of electricity and water and the thinking of data centers, right? So watching a show on a streaming television, uh, service uses a lot of computer power, and most of us are doing that. And I would suggest partly because of this hype cycle, there's just a lot less articles about how much electricity is going into Netflix, even though billions of people are taking a look at, you know, TV shows on a daily basis. But, you know, there were articles, I don't remember if, if, uh, any of you remember this, but that, uh, that video that went to, you know, a billion views Despacito from a couple of years ago, there were lots of articles about how much electricity and water, just the global viewing of that one music video took. That doesn't make it all right. But it is important to kind of understand these things in context. It is also to the best of my understanding, the reality that electricity use is only a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions in our country. So electricity is one part of how we emit carbon, you know, uh, smoke things like that into the air, but there's a lot of other things that also emit greenhouse gases, including the manufacturing of cement, including cows. Um, so if we think of AI as maybe half of all the electricity that, uh, data centers are using, but if we think of electricity as only 25% of the greenhouse gas emissions in the country, for example, then we come to understand that artificial intelligence right now is using 0.5% of greenhouse gas emissions. Again, that is not nothing. If you are in a place where you are being exceptionally thoughtful about, uh, the environmental impact of your work, if you're in an office where at the end of the day somebody goes around and turns off all the monitors to make sure you know, we're not using any extra electricity where you're limiting your travel to conferences, because we don't wanna be contributing to that, uh, climate change challenge, then it might make sense to really think about use the way you use artificial intelligence. Most, uh, AI programs like chat GBT have different models, and you can choose to use one that is the most powerful, but might use the most electricity or use one that's slightly less powerful and is much more efficient. We'll talk more about that in our third session when we talk about advanced features of chat GBT. But it is also the case, and it is already proven to be the case even in just the first couple of years of this generative AI revolution, that these tools get much more efficient over time. Uh, we don't want the AI tools that we are using to use a ton of electricity to use a ton of energy and water. It's not good for the environment. But the truth is, even if you were running one of these companies and didn't care about the environment, you also don't wanna pay for those things. And so there is a pretty significant incentive, and we are seeing as it plays out that many of these companies are competing against one another to improve their models to use less and less electricity over time. And we are seeing, and there are good research reports showing that, uh, every six months the best version of AI out there is doing more with less in terms of electricity and water. So again, I, I don't think it's a zero impact. Uh, but when I think about my own carbon footprint across my whole life, it is something that I feel comfortable with in terms of using generative AI on a regular basis, and people can make different decisions. Now, the biggest picture concern is, you know, I, and I may be a little too flippant in describing it as robots will take over the world, but you know, there is a little bit of a science fiction level of concern, right? People who have seen the movie Terminator, but some very smart people are in fact taking this very seriously. And the company open AI was actually created, uh, by some people who thought that there could be really negative consequences if ai, uh, went down a certain path. And so, uh, you know, in the beginning, uh, wanted to create a, a different way of pursuing the way open AI can be developed. And there's a number of people who are thinking about it that way, and a number of people who are thinking about it from a purely, uh, you know, capitalist perspective of how can we get these things working very fast and make the most money possible. What I can say is right now to the best of my pretty, uh, widespread, you know, checking in and understanding, there really is no evidence that any of the tools we're seeing right now are thinking are, you know, that think of themselves as a person with any kind of negative agenda beyond what we've asked for them. There's some really good, uh, essays, there's perspectives out there, but right now, this does not seem to be something that is of, uh, practical concern in the world, although we can have greater conversations about that over time. So, uh, in summary, we are already many of us using a ai, our colleagues, whether we think of it or not, and our colleagues at all levels of the organization, many of them are already using ai. It does make sense to get started by thinking incrementally to start with the basics. If we're not, you know, computer scientists, data scientists, AI engineers, if you are, by all means, move directly into that. You know, uh, do not pass, go move directly into that, uh, exponential AI framework. But if we're starting from kind of a baseline, starting from pretty close to zero, let's begin with this incremental approach. If we're in leadership, let's get those temporary guidelines out there right away. And let's make sure we are having a conversation where we be, are being thoughtful, we are engaging with one another. If you're a junior staff member, feel confident raising issues of concern with leadership, uh, in, in a thoughtful way. And if you're in leadership, be ready to have issues of, uh, concern raised. Be ready to have a thoughtful conversation. Try to present things in context and be open and aware to the fact that many of these things are developing issues over time and we are gonna learn more as we move forward. So again, uh, you just joined the second of three sessions. If you didn't see the first session, uh, still recommend after this one jump back, go watch session number one, AI 1 0 1. Otherwise, uh, we look forward to seeing you at our third session. You can click, uh, advanced Features of chat GBT session number three. Thank you so much.

</details>
