# Advanced Features for Nonprofits

<!-- vimeo: 1085076671 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1085076671)

<details>
<summary>자막: Advanced Features for Nonprofits</summary>

Hi everybody. Uh, my name is Alex and I am the program manager for OpenAI Academy. We're super excited to have you here today, uh, and especially excited for today's program, which is Advanced Features for Nonprofits. So this is a follow up for, uh, to an intro session that we did last month, um, featuring our friend Rich from the Fund Fund for the City of New York. Uh, and let me just bring in Rich now, and, uh, he can take it from there. Hey, rich, how's it going? I'm great. Thanks, Alex. Nice to see you. You too. Welcome. Welcome back. We're really excited to have you. Yeah, we had such a great time last month. I'm really glad to talk to, uh, maybe some of the same folks and maybe a new audience. Uh, today, just as you said, we're gonna have this conversation about some of the advanced or even maybe just little known or lesser understood features of Chat, GPT, that people who work at nonprofits, people who work with nonprofits, people who just love and support NGOs or nonprofit organizations might find helpful, uh, doing the work that you all do every day. And I know we have at least hundreds, maybe even thousands of people in our conversation today, Alex. I don't remember what our, what our latest numbers were. Yeah. Yeah. I think we have over a thousand, so definitely excited to have such a, a big audience today. Amazing. So I'm just gonna go ahead and, uh, share my screen and my slides. Does that sound like a good place to start? Cool. Yeah. That, that sounds good. And for those watching at home, um, I think some of you will be able to ask questions, uh, as we go, and at the end we'll do a little bit of a q and a, um, as long as we have time for that. So we'll let you take it from here, rich. Okay, great. And can you see my slides? Okay. Terrific. Okay. Um, so again, hi everybody. Thanks so much to Alex. Thanks to Lauren also at OpenAI. Um, I think we'll be hearing more from Lauren later who've really helped, uh, bring us to you. And thanks also to some of our nonprofit co-sponsors and partners, the folks at Just Tech at Compass Pro Bono and Decoded Futures. Um, some of you are here in this conversation because you got the word from them, so we're always grateful to those allies who bring other nonprofit colleagues to the conversation. Really briefly about me, uh, my name is Rich Lime Cider. As you heard before, I always tell people, even though it's a very corny joke, that if there was a drink made out of limes, it would be lime cider. So that's how you can pronounce my name. I am in New York City today, and I'm born and raised in New York City, a product of, uh, excellent New York City public schools. I studied for my MBA and have most of a social work degree as well. And most recently, I was running a nonprofit that provides free lawyers to children who were being incorrectly, um, uh, deported, uh, from the United States back to their, uh, country of origin. I am, I've been a nonprofit and a philanthropic consultant, and right now I have the privilege to be the director of what we call the AI for Nonprofits Sprint at, uh, at a place called the Fund for the City of New York. And what you'll notice from my, uh, from my brief resume or CV in front of you, is that I'm not a technologist. I don't have years of programming experience. I don't have a technology degree, but I am someone who cares very deeply about the social sector, about nonprofits and who's come to understand the ways that, uh, ai and particularly off the shelf generative AI tools like Chat GPT can make a real difference. And so, as Alex mentioned, last month, we had a conversation for folks who just wanted to get started today, we're really gonna identify, um, those next steps. You know, uh, again, not for data scientists, not for AI engineers, but for folks that want to understand, having used a generative AI tool for a certain number of hours, what can happen next and what's possible? I'm at the fund for the City of New York. We run our AI for nonprofit Sprint, and our project is a short term campaign to work with a hundred non-tech nonprofits. And that means, uh, organizations that were not necessarily built on entrepreneurship, built on technology, uh, but organizations that are doing vital work in communities all around the world, and trying to engage at scale with 5,000 individual staff people to get to a place of basic AI literacy. By, by the end of this summer, just a few months away, I do wanna have a better understanding of who's here with us today. And so if you have a phone and can, uh, use this QR code, there's also a link. Um, and I think maybe we're gonna try to put that in the chat to, uh, to members, but use this QR code on your phone, and there's a one minute survey there, and we just wanna better understand who's here with us today, what is your background, what's your level of skill and expertise and understanding? And that will help me make some adjustments right now on the fly in terms of how we talk about different features and what we'll spend more or less time working on. So again, it's less than a minute. Uh, snap this QR code, and then let's see if we can get some responses already have, have a few in straight to, uh, straight to the Google form. And we're starting to see that, uh, we've got 10 responses that's in, I'm gonna actually go back and just give you a few more seconds on that QR code. Uh, but we're already starting to see, uh, I think we had more than a dozen responses in already. I'll give you this for another couple of seconds. And then, let's see, let's see what we can learn from the people we're working with today. Okay, wow, already up to 40 responses. Uh, you all work very quickly. It does seem that the majority are using a tool like chat GPT every day, which makes sense since we're having a conversation that's really oriented to, uh, to people who are ready for an advanced, uh, advanced conversation. Um, you do use the paid subscription level model, which is not typical, as you certainly know for most people in the non-profit sector. And yet, nevertheless, the majority of you don't have any guidance from your employer about what is or isn't okay with ai. And we find that this is one of the stumbling blocks, you know, for, um, for so many people. We're trying to use ai. We actually think we've got some good use cases, but we're not being given clarity from our workplace, from our boss and our employer on what's okay. And even though the plurality of you rate your general expertise right in the center, looks like we have a little bit of a normal curve, but a solid, let's see, what is that? More than 40% think you're doing pretty well about some of the basic features. So we identified a few things that we talk about as advanced features, talking about using mobile mode on the phone vision. Um, most of you are not using those features, making pictures. More of you do that. Uh, a number of you are now trying the, the deep research feature, but we'll look at that as well. Uh, very few of you have ever used the tool canvas or custom gpt, and so we'll make sure to spend time on all of those features so that you get an example of what nonprofit people can do to find useful in those contexts. Um, but it is wonderful to see that when we ask you how you're feeling about AI in the workplace. Uh, the vast majority, again, as you'd expect from a, from a conversation framed around advanced features, the vast majority of you are feeling quite positive and enthusiastic about opportunities for AI to make a difference where you work. Okay? So thank you so much. If you're just finishing up the poll, feel free to conclude. Uh, but we've got some, we've got some wonderful data to help us through the rest of today's conversation. I wanna spend a couple of minutes reviewing some of the principles that we discuss every single day with our 100, now 125 nonprofit partners at the AI sprint, and that we did in fact address last month here at the same conversation. But I wanna just quickly review some of the core principles so that those of you who were not with us a month ago know where we're coming from. We believe that most social purpose organizations really ought to start fairly modestly rather than building a complicated new AI tool, rather than sharing, uh, complex and, uh, potentially, um, uh, uh, damaging information, confidential information about vulnerable populations. Most people should start, and most nonprofit organizations should start with a safe, what we call an incremental approach to using ai. And so to us, exponential AI are really the big picture, uh, implementations that get a lot of attention in the world, right? Self-driving cars, cancer, drug discovery, those are exponential, uh, implementations of artificial intelligence. And in the social sector, we hear things like, uh, using predictive analytics to help a judge decide whether someone should go to jail or not. Uh, we hear a conversation about AI chatbots that would work with children who are learning a subject or immigrants who need to figure out whether or not they can stay in the country or, uh, people with, uh, difficult mental health situations. These are all really interesting. There's opportunities for massive improvement in our world if these things work out. Overwhelmingly, they do require expertise, data sets, and an incredibly high level of accuracy and perfection. Most nonprofits are not ready to explore exponential implementations of AI yet. However, we believe that almost every single person in every organization is ready for an incremental implementation of ai. And incremental means using these off the shelf low cost tools like a chat GPT to get work done right away. It might not mean making your work or your organization's work twice as impactful or 10 times as impactful. It might only be 8% or 10% better than what you're doing now. But we believe that if the vast majority of nonprofit staff become as comfortable using a tool like chat GT as they already are using a spreadsheet or an email tool, the world is gonna be a better place. We also hear, and we've done surveys of thousands of nonprofit staff, that there are in fact concerns about working with, uh, generative AI tools. And I don't wanna, uh, I don't wanna proceed as though nonprofit staff don't have real thoughts about challenges working in this environment. We tend to see these seven concerns repeat over and over again. Um, errors, bias concerns about data privacy. We believe our incremental approach really mitigates the vast majority of concerns that have to do there. But if you all have questions, um, we're gonna be very interested to hear about it. I think I totally forgot the, the, the key part of the overview, which is that I'll be presenting to you for just about an hour for another 45 minutes or so at this point. And then we're very lucky to have colleagues from OpenAI join us for the final 30 minutes of our session together for q and a. Um, actually, Alex probably did mention that people do worry about over-reliance on new AI tools or the loss of skills in a professional development context. People worry about job displacement, and these are reasonable things for us to be thinking about and talking about. And there are also some concerns about the environmental impact of AI tools, which I'm happy to discuss, uh, in greater detail. Uh, I think there's, there's been some useful information, some what I think is, uh, less accurate information about some of the environmental concerns. And people, um, have seen the movie Terminator, and people worry that the robots are gonna take over the world. And I think some very serious people have conversations like that. And so we could talk about any or all of those things, uh, but we do hear those things when we talk to nonprofit staff over time at the AI sprint. We encourage organizations to immediately distribute a set of AI guidelines to their staff. You saw that even among the people on this call today. People who are enthusiastic about ai, people who have real experience and expertise with ai. You all don't have guidance from your employers. We think every employer, even if they need to develop a really comprehensive set of policies, ought to start with a placeholder set of guidelines right away. And here's our recommendations. Uh, to start, let's just not put in any information about vulnerable populations. Let's keep all PII personally identifiable information, health information, uh, out of these tools for now, if that's the best way to feel comfortable moving forward. We wanna remind people that they are always responsible for the quality of their work, whether an intern helped them, whether an out outside consultant helped them develop a product, or whether an AI tool developed a product. And we think that when you're using generative ai, a policy of a hundred percent disclosure internally supports a learning goal. And so, you know, if everyone in the organization is always telling each other, telling your colleagues, Hey, I use Chachi PT to help me develop this meeting agenda or to brainstorm titles for our next publication, we're all gonna learn about what's possible, where we get stuck, et cetera. Uh, I'm gonna skip this. This is a, a little bit of a how to, for folks who are just starting. So many of you said that you're well past the beginnings. Uh, I won't talk it through, but the slide is in the deck. And for those that are watching after the fact, you can always slow down at this point and, and understand how we think nonprofit staff ought to begin. Similarly, you know, this is our approach to working with a tool like chat, GPT. We call it the Aspire model. It's a nice acronym, chat, GPT made the acronym. It's not really all that different than, uh, lots of other basic acronyms or suggestions that are up there in the world. By the way, I'm gonna rely on my, uh, allies and colleagues from, uh, from open ai. If you're having any trouble hearing me or, uh, seeing any of the stuff I'm sharing, please do let me know. Okay, so let's get into it. Let's start to look at some of the features, uh, that some of you may not be aware of, may not be using that can really improve the experience of working with Chat g pt, getting better results. You know, we really advocate thinking of generative AI tools as though they are a fake colleague. Um, in fact, we believe the idea of the prompt library or the prompt or prompt engineering is actually already a dead idea. Uh, we don't think that working with these tools requires learning some kind of new engineering language. It's not like writing code. Um, and that the best way, especially for our nonprofit colleagues to get comfortable using these tools is to really encourage people to get deep into the chat as though we were working with a very knowledgeable new colleague who doesn't know much context about us, but has studied lots of things, uh, in a graduate program, let's say. So let's take a look at what personalizing chat GPT. We're gonna go through three different categories, uh, personalizing chat, GPT, using various multimodal features like image and voice, and then go through a number of advanced features, uh, including canvas projects that we talked about, uh, that you saw in the survey. One of the best places to start is to really just dive into the settings of your chat GPT account and do some personalization to set it up to work best for you. And so I'm gonna show you my own personal chat, GPT account. Um, this isn't even a fancy account that I set up for trainings. This is my actual this GPT account. And let's go take a look at my settings. So when you go to the corner, you click your name and some of some people have never actually done this before. You can choose to see a settings window. It looks very similar to how you find settings for, uh, many other software programs that we all use. One thing that people talk about and wanna learn about is the degree to which your information is confidential to yourself and private to yourself. And this feature right here where it says, do you wanna help improve the model for everyone does mean that open AI in an anonymous protected way can still gather what you are entering into the system to use it to train future models of chate. I turn it off. Um, you can have access to all of the data that you've shared. You can actually delete your account here. So to the extent that you're thinking about privacy, about your information about data, the data controls tab of settings is where you want to start. We have access to voice features both on a desktop version, and I'm just using chat GT on the web here. It's in my Chrome browser. Uh, there is a chat GPT app. I use that sometimes. There's always access to voice mode, and you can choose one of a number of different voices and you can actually tell it what language you want it to be working with you in. Um, I have it working on the spruce voice. I, I like the, the timber of how this person talks to me. I'm gonna play it and I hope you all can hear it. Um, and again, uh, we'll ask for text or reaching out if you can't hear the sound coming off my computer. Hey, how's it going? I'm looking forward to working together. Let's figure out where to start, what's on your mind. Great. Okay. It sounds like you can all hear adjusting the voice settings something worth knowing about. And then in a most detailed way, we want to talk about, um, a few other aspects of customization. So I wanna talk about memory first. Also related to how you think about your data, your privacy memory is a feature that has actually expanded just over the past few weeks or maybe month or so. Um, for a while chat, GPT has, uh, using its own AI driven judgment, tried to remember certain things about you, that it will keep in sort of a longer term memory, regardless of which new chat you might open up. And so you may have remembered, you may have seen as you're having a conversation, it'll say updated memory. If you mention that you have a partner who has a certain name, or that your child has a certain birthday, it may have been adding that to memory. When you go here to manage those memories, you can actually see everything that chat GPT has listed as a saved memory information about you. And you can manage them all individually. If it's remembered 30 things about you and your life, you can delete three of them if you don't want it to remember over time. The newest, uh, the newest feature that OpenAI has rolled out for Chat GT is this notion of referencing chat history, where every time you open a new conversation chat, GPT actually has access to remember all of the old conversations you've ever had with it. So if you open up a new conversation about something that's going on at work, it remembers the past 10. Now, I will tell you, um, I actually don't like this feature personally. I think it's a, it's a matter of personal preference. I do so many different things using chat GPT, that when I'm talking to it about a birthday party for my daughter, I actually don't want it really remembering all the details of things that I'm working on at work. So for me, my preference is to turn that feature off, but it's important to know that it exists. And then the final thing in settings that I wanna make sure everyone is aware of is this notion of custom instructions. And this is really the most powerful part of how you can adapt and of course, customize chat GT for your use. And if you haven't, every single person on this call, uh, and you could do it right now while we're talking, uh, but at some point you should be opening up the customization feature and making sure you're editing chat GBT to be used the way you would wish. You can put in your name, you can put in a nickname, give it a job description, and then you could tell it how you want it to behave. And that can include both traits and they give you some, uh, pre-described ones. You can say, I want you to be skeptical all the time. I want you to be witty. I want you to be encouraging. They've even suggested you can talk like a, a genzer. Um, uh, will I get in a lot of trouble if I say I can't imagine why anyone would wanna permanently program that into their chat, GPT, uh, instructions. But in, in addition to traits, you can also plug in permanent, uh, instructions about how you want it to work. I have found one of the things we teach is that chat, GPT works best when it takes on a particular role because it knows so much about the world, just as much about French literature as particle physics. When you ask chat GBT to take on the role of a particular kind of staff person, its answers are usually much better. So I put in here as a permanent instruction. If I forgot to tell you to take on a certain role, ask me if you want me to. I also ask Jet GPT to always remind me, or always offer to ask me five clarifying questions to improve the instructions I'm giving it, right? Uh, that's how we would work with any live intern colleague person who reports to us. If we gave them an assignment, we wouldn't insist that they leave our office and immediately get to work. We'd give them a chance to ask questions if that was helpful. The same, uh, the same type of conversation is actually useful when working with Chad GPT. So my custom instructions are to tell Chachi Petit to do those things every time. You might have your own perspective. And then I type my bio in here. You know, anything else Chachi Petit should know about you. I do think it's useful for it to know who I am. Every time under advanced, you can plug in which features of chat g PT you want your chats to have access to. Okay? So that's the, that's the piece of custom instructions. I wanna share with you a couple of other, uh, important features sort of on the basics of just sort of what's around is one of the most powerful features, especially because we're all in this learning mode of how can these tools make a difference for us and for our colleagues. We wanna show off things that are working well, we want to help other people understand what's possible. Sometimes we want to share a conversation that isn't going well, so we can see if anybody else has a way around it. Chatt has a really well built sharing mode, and we, you know, it looks just like a share button that we've seen in a million other tools and features. But what happens is when you click that share button chat, GT creates a static link that just covers the conversation up until that moment. So if I went back to the conversation and added more back and forth, those new exchanges wouldn't be a part of this link. I now have access to this link, and I can send it to anyone who I want to watch or be able to review the conversation that I've had with Chad GPT. And by the way, there are privacy settings built in. So if you have uploaded documents to provide background to this conversation, if you have uploaded images or it has generated images, none of those will be available through the shared link. The shared link only shows the text of the back and forth between you and Chachi pt. I use this all the time. I use this to create, uh, a list of my own favorite examples. I use it to share things with my family about, Hey, I just had this conversation about a trip we're taking, you know, what do you think? What's useful here? This share feature, I think is one of the best developed and most underused features in chat GBT. So I want y'all to know about share. And then you should also know about temporary, when you start a new chat in chat. GPT, it has a temporary mode, which is pretty similar to a private window or an incognito mode that you would find in any other web browser. And so if you wanna have the kind of conversation that really won't be used for any kind of purposes, um, you can always start one of these temporary chats and have the conversation in that context, find out another, another feature worth, worth knowing about. Okay, I wanna, um, I want to come back and have a conversation about, uh, about the different models. And, um, I'm gonna invite, let's see if Lauren from OpenAI is around, and if we can get her, uh, get her in on the conversation with us. We're gonna talk about the fact that Chachi BT really does offer, uh, so many different models at any given moment, right? You know, we've talked about the settings, we've talked about custom instructions, how to share chats, but I want to talk about the reality that for a user who isn't a data scientist, sometimes it can feel a little complicated, uh, not only to see that there's so many different versions of chat GBT we have access to, but frankly, that their, um, their names aren't always super transparent in terms of what, uh, in terms of what they might be. So, Lauren, are you, are you around? Are you available to come, come talk to us now. I am. Can you hear me? I am. Can you hear me, rich? Okay, Perfect. Perfect. So, uh, and Rich, I am getting a little bit of, okay, I think we're good now. I was getting a little feedback, but I think we're good to go. So, like Rich mentioned, we do have, uh, quite a bit of a tricky naming convention to get used to when it comes to our different models. And I already saw a couple of questions come through in our q and a. So happy to cover this at kind of a, a high level here. Now, keep in mind, we could probably spend an entire OpenAI Academy session just on this topic of all of the different models that OpenAI has created. And, you know, also keep in mind that this is a very fast moving space. So these models are evolving pretty quickly, and what we talk about today might be different than what's available tomorrow, or, you know, a couple weeks from now or a couple of months from now. But at a, a very high level here, I think there are just a, a couple of things to keep in mind. So I like to think about our models in two different categories. We have our flagship models that are going to be used for kind of most of your day-to-day tasks. And right now, 4.0 is really that premier flagship model that, you know, I personally even use probably for like 75 to 80% of the tasks that I'm doing on a daily basis. It's great for asking questions, asking Chad GBT to go surface information for you, doing some kind of quick brainstorming and iteration using chat GBT really as a, a sounding board and kind of source of information as you're researching stuff. And then we also have 4.5, um, which I will typically leverage if I am working on something that involves creative writing tasks or maybe copyright that is going to be externally public facing. And I really wanna make sure that the writing style is very specific to what I'm looking for. So 4.5, you know, primarily think of that as your tool for that, that writing assistant. So even honestly, if you're brainstorming something and you want a much more detailed creative response, 4.5 is probably gonna be a little bit better suited than 4.0. And then we have our o series of reasoning models. So any of the models that you see here that start with a little o indicate that this is what we call a reasoning model. So just like the name implies the are, these are models that are trained to not just go out and get you an answer as quick as possible, but to actually think through your prompt and do some research on the backend before coming back with some kind of a response. So O three is going to really be the, the most powerful of those reasoning models. And that is what is used by default in our deep research tool, which I know Rich is gonna cover a little bit more later on here. Uh, but then we also have O four mini and O four mini high. So anytime you see the word mini in one of our model names, uh, just think of that as a model that is designed to be even faster. So one thing you will notice if you've played around with any of the reasoning models or you know, you're gonna start doing that after today's session, is that because they are trained to go out and really do research and take their time, they will take a while to come back with a response. It's not going to be that instantaneous, you know, typing that you see back when you're working in four oh, within chat GPT, it might take a couple of seconds, if not a couple of minutes to come back, depending on the difficulty of the prompt that you sent. Its way. So the re the mini reasoning models like oh four mini are basically distilled down models that we've made a little bit smaller in order to help them move more quickly. Um, and MI oh four mini high in particular was really set up so that it's really good at highly technical tasks like coding and able to come back with faster answers while still providing you with that kind of deep realm of research and technical insight that you might be looking for. So that's kind of the, the broad strokes vision of our various different models. Rich, I don't know if there's anything else that you would add to those descriptions. No, I think that was great. Um, I think that's exactly what we needed to hear. I, I, uh, I think I am, it's, it's reassuring for me as a non insider at the company to, to know that I think I use the models pretty similarly to the way you do. I would say I'm probably using, um, 4.0 75% of the time that I'm here in chat gt and I'm using oh three a reasoning model, another 20%. Otherwise, I'm sort of playing around with, with other stuff. Um, okay, I think my screen share is still off, and I need to ask the host to, to let my screen be visible again to everybody, um, because I wanna make sure you can see what I'm sharing here. Okay, great. So, yeah, I wanna, let me show an example of four oh and oh three in action. So four oh is the faster, um, kind of more traditional engagement with GPT that doesn't, uh, doesn't do that interim reasoning step. And so, you know, here's a, a pretty straightforward prompt that I typed in for medium sized nonprofits. What are some things that gen AI is not good for? And lo and behold, uh, it remembered my custom instructions. It said, thanks, rich knows my name. Before I go any further, do you want me to take on a specific role? And do you have five clarifying questions? Five clarifying questions? Well, it's not a real person, it's still my fake colleague, so I can answer in a pretty straightforward way. I don't have to ask it how its weekend went. Great, it got it, got my answers, and then it moves forward and gives me some pretty direct responses in a, in a straightforward and fast way. That's an example of working with chat GBT Model four O. But here's O three. In this case, I uploaded a spreadsheet, you can't see it right now, but I uploaded a spreadsheet with some feedback from webinar participants and said, do you want me to adopt a specific role? I said, yes, be a data and a survey expert. You asked me if I wanted five questions, I said no, and it did some thinking. It spent two minutes and 18 seconds thinking about my original prompt, which was simply, what is this? Uploading a spreadsheet? And here if you down, if you click the carrot next to the thinking, uh, uh, message, you can actually see what the thinking was. It says the user uploaded a file, it did some analysis by using code. It said, okay, all right, in the analysis channel, I can load this, the CSV, the spreadsheet using Python. So it's sort of thinking to itself how to break down this task. This is what was happening in the chat GBT computer over those two minutes and 18 seconds. This is what it seems to include. It seems like it was exported from Zoom. So it spends two minutes thinking to itself, definitely, by the way, using more computing power, using more electricity than if I had just up uploaded this to 4.0. And then after two minutes and 18 seconds of thinking, lots of coding better set of understanding, it responded to my question of what is this? With a fairly comprehensive summary, including some data analysis of what it can actually find in the survey itself. And again, the entire prompt I offered here was, what is this? So pretty, uh, interesting and I think powerful way that these new, you know, quote reasoning models are able to break down a task and get more done than the sort of direct answer that, uh, a four oh would have provided. Okay. So that's, uh, those are the features that I would describe as, you know, understanding and personalizing the way you use chat GPT for your own use. Okay, so now we're gonna talk about some of the multimodal features. What that means is voice mode. It means what, uh, what OpenAI calls vision or using, uh, reviewing images. And it also includes doing mobile work. So for these, uh, for these examples and demos to be the most impressive, I have to do stuff live. So instead of just showing you screens that I opened up, uh, before we got on the call together, I am gonna have to try to show you some things live, and hope that my internet connection where I am am in New York, is working well enough for you all to see some interesting things. But first, let's go understand, uh, voice mode a little bit. So you saw that during settings, I chose the particular voice that I like to work with. Let's go down here to that voice mode button. Uh, this is the black button, which it sort of has that audio logo. Hi, can you hear me okay? I can hear you just fine. Everything sounds good on my end. Can you do a very brief welcome to more than a thousand webinar attendees? We're talking about AI for nonprofits, and then once you welcome them in English, can you briefly repeat it in Hindi and Haitian Creole? Absolutely. Welcome everyone. We're thrilled to have over a thousand of you joining us today to talk about AI for nonprofits. Let's make this session impactful and insightful. Hello. Great. So you can see how we were able to use voice mode to interact directly with the tool. Um, hopefully you all heard. Now my Hindi and Haitian Creole is not very good. So if you all wanna put in the chat whether you thought the translation was accurate and useful, please feel free to do that. And you can see everything we discussed verbally. It also was tracking in writing. So again, we can share, uh, we can go back to these conversations over time and everything was tracked down, um, in a written form as well. So that's an example of understanding what's possible in voice mode just here on the desktop. And then let's talk about images. Let's talk about what it means for chat GT to work with documents and pictures. This is different from having it create pictures. This is a picture that I took of a post-it, uh, you know, a post-it note that I had on my desk of some things I needed to do. I'll, I'll admit I made this simple one just for the purposes of sharing with you. I'm not giving you my full to-do list on this webinar. Um, but it's got a few things that I needed to do over a day, and one of them was crossed off. So I uploaded the document, I uploaded this picture, and then I just said, put this list in a spreadsheet, and based on the visual cues indicate whether the task has been accomplished or not, right? So I didn't say done has to be done. I just crossed one of them out. And I'm asking chat gt to really understand what does that mean? And by the way, I did not modify my handwriting to make my, uh, to make what I wrote easier to read. And in about five seconds, four, oh, the lighter model, uh, said here to-do list, here's a spreadsheet, check email, make the slides, cook dinner. You did get that one done. You didn't get the other one done. So a nice reminder that, you know, even working with data, you don't have to be working with structured data spreadsheets or even PDFs. You can take a picture of a page of notes of a blackboard or a whiteboard from a conference and ask chat GBT to help you organize and structure that information for use in a number of different ways. Um, okay, I, uh, I'm gonna stop sharing for a minute because I wanna show you mobile use. And the way I'm gonna do that is I'm gonna let you watch me play with my phone, which is, uh, which is my children's dream all the time that I would watch them play with their phone. Okay, here's my phone. I have the, uh, the chat GPT app, just like, uh, many of us do. Instead of typing into it or even voice dictating, I'm gonna use the voice mode. Hey, can you hear me okay? Hey Rich, I can hear you loud and clear. What's up? Now I'm turning on vision mode. Okay. Hey, Chad, can you tell me what we're looking at and how much this would cost if I bought it online? Sure thing. I can, holding a Micron zero five pen, these pens are popular for detailed drawing and writing. A single one usually costs around three to $4 online. Okay, so hopefully that came through and you were able to hear and see that engagement as well. And that's mobile use, right? Everything we can do with chat GT in terms of voice, in terms of vision is also possible with, um, with the phone. And that means walking around the world, you can take pictures of, um, you can take pictures of, and I think are, let's see, can you all see my screen? Here we go again. You can take pictures of, of things that you're working on, you can find objects that aren't working properly, and ask Chad GBT for the instruction manual for how to fix a coffee maker. You can take a picture of, um, the way people are engaging in the world and ask for a marketing tagline based on a group of young people, uh, you know, playing in an afterschool program. So all kinds of different things that are possible with mobile voice and vision. And then we're gonna talk about the, the final list of these broader advanced features before we wrap up and turn it over to our, to our q and a session where we invite, uh, Lauren back in and, and are able to really engage with our colleagues from OpenAI. Okay? So here is the, the final list of things that I want to share with you all. I want to, uh, remind you of a couple of things that, uh, chatt can do. I wanna, uh, help you notice that it's actually doing some things better than ever, which is really important. Um, and then we'll talk about some of those, uh, some of those bigger picture features that according to our survey, most of you haven't ever actually used or are using, very rarely. So first I do wanna remind everyone that Chachi bt as a generative AI tool. Uh, you know, we always say that generative AI is basically a fancy auto complete, just like when you're texting and it's recommending that next word that we've all seen for years, generative AI is doing the same thing. We're most comfortable thinking about that from a, a perspective of words as it writes a sentence, a paragraph, or even an entire report. But as a reminder, when you can do generative AI in that way, you can do it with computer code just as easily as you can do it with words. And so, while there were, I think, some valid early concerns that ai uh, generative AI isn't good at math, or it hallucinates when you ask it to do formulas, it turns out that when you, uh, certainly when you ask it or reminded, but most of the time when it's doing a data analysis project that involves writing itself some code to figure things out, you actually get a pretty accurate, uh, numerical and statistical analysis. So in this case, I uploaded again, a spreadsheet just to sort of say, Hey, how many rows, um, are in this, uh, are in this file? And it wrote some code, it counted, and it told me there were 2026. And then again, this is 4.0, this is not that, uh, longer term thinking mode. But I said, this is a survey. We're asking people whether they have any concerns. I said, oh, okay. There's 413 examples when people said they have no concerns about using AI at work, but doing the give and take that I would do just as if I did with a, with a real colleague. I said, well be more expansive. I don't only want to hear in that survey when people have said no, there's lots of ways that might indicate that they don't have concerns with ai. And my, my fake colleague came back and said, oh, when you remind me of that, when I think about it that way, there's 560 responses in this survey that indicate people are not worried about ai. And if I click this little button here, that allows me to view the coding that it was writing for itself. And I can see in addition to looking for any survey response that said, no, it looked for not worried, it's fine, I'm okay with it. Now, by the way, I don't know how to do any coding. I don't really know what this is. I would never have been able to put something like this together, but I'm glad my fake colleague, Che PT was able to help me with that. Let's talk a little bit about, uh, image generation again. Um, you know, lots of people were really wowed by, uh, some of the aspects of the way chat, GPT, and its, its kind of, uh, sister AI program. Dolly could do, could make pictures when it first came out, but, uh, everyone knew that it couldn't spell. And that, uh, a really obvious way to figure out something was AI generated, was that the words were all messed up. It turns out, uh, over the past couple of months, uh, uh, an upgrade has really changed that pretty dramatically. So, you know, from our organization, the AI for Nonprofit Sprint here, I wrote Celebrate the Sprint with a 1950s era Popular Mechanics cover. This was a, this was a, a magazine my dad used to love and then make a full one page interior article. And so here we have an image that in fact, um, is spelled exactly right, no spelling mistakes. It does in fact look like a 1950s, uh, cover article. And then it writes an entire article about our AI for nonprofit Sprint. It includes graphics, it includes words, it does the thing that magazines do where it hyphenates right at the end of each column, not a spelling mistake to be seen. So, um, if you had mostly experienced using image generation even up until a few months ago, I think you're gonna be pleasantly surprised to see what Gen AI tools can do at this moment. And also, you know, photorealistic images, right? We, we, I think a lot of us saw news articles that, um, oh, there's the wrong number of fingers, and it's, it's, you know, it's, it's so obvious to see, uh, when images are created, by the way, there's obviously risk and challenges to successful photorealistic image generation, and we should all be thinking about, uh, deep fakes and what that might mean to vulnerable populations we work with or who are in our own families. But you know, here I've said I want a photorealistic image of 16 people on a Zoom call, diverse by age, re uh, gender and race. And it gave me something pretty thoughtful there. Some are smiling, some aren't so happy. Um, there's, uh, some pretty significant diversity just as I'd asked. So if I was working on a marketing document, this might be an interesting, uh, an interesting way to get some, uh, quick responses. Okay, let's talk about deep research. I would say of the advanced features that we surveyed you about more of you have tried deep research than anything else, which is interesting. And it, uh, I wonder if that's because the button is right there. I wonder if it's because you've gotten, um, uh, good references from friends about the quality of what's possible. You know, deep research is really one of the first more popular examples of what people talk about as agentic ai. When AI moves more in the direction of becoming an agent or a fake person that can actually go off and do things for a period of time. And the, you know, the O three model is a, is close to that as well. But instead of having to live right in front of the chat where, you know, as we started with, uh, chat GBT and OpenAI, you have to kinda sit here and talk to it live if you want it to be helping you. The idea of AI as an agent, to the extent that there is a clear and common definition, and there, you know, we all know there's lots of jargon and hype in this world. Um, the idea of an AI agent is that you can give it an assignment and it'll go off and come back later when it's figured it all out. So here's an assignment. I gave deep research. I said for a small immigration legal services nonprofit, like the one I used to run, if they wanna use AI for translation, what are specific options that they can use? Now what's interesting is that my longtime habit of asking chatt to start by asking me questions is actually what deep research does every time. The first thing it always does, whether you put those, uh, that request for questions in your instructions or not, is it tries to clarify the assignment, tries to get a better research brief. I answered it some of its questions about how this assignment should work. It kind of gives me an updated summary of, uh, basically it says, rich, your original request, and he wasn't clear enough. But now that I've clarified, here's what I'm actually gonna go research. And then it took 18 minutes and went to 35 different websites. And so, whereas an ordinary chat GPT inquiry might have just started with one or two in this case, um, it's, it goes off, it spends a whole bunch of time and it does a whole bunch of research, and it writes that report. And if you're interested in seeing what it did, if I had stayed by my computer, which I didn't, I had other stuff to do, you can actually watch its stream of consciousness thought for those 18 minutes. I'm searching for this, I'm examining, I'm thinking about X, Y, Z, right? It's finding different websites. It's reading a blog, uh, you know, just like, um, uh, just like the Miracle before Christmas. It's, you know, it's, it's willing to go to Google and anybody else, right? So it's not keeping within a certain, uh, uh, corporate framework. It goes wherever it needs to go to help us get the answers we're looking for. And it gives you its sources. It says, if you don't trust me, absolutely go click and find out what were the sources of all this research. And then I have a 25 page well sourced memo about how should, uh, nonprofit legal services organizations think about translation and what are some specific products they might use. So that's deep research. And again, if you have not tried deep research yet, it's worth putting in any kind of question where if you would send somebody off to spend several hours poking around and learning about something, um, see what it can do in 15 or 20 minutes. Let me share briefly the, um, the Canvas tool. So Canvas, uh, amazingly something that most of you had not seen have not used. Uh, and it's the fourth thing that's listed down here at the bottom. So for some people it's not even visible. You didn't even know that Canvas was a tool. Maybe, uh, if you're looking at your, uh, your text window, you want to click the three dots, you wanna try Canvas, here's what Canvas does. The, I actually showed you this one already. Remember we evaluated the survey, we had oh three do, its thinking for two minutes. And then it gave me a summary of what was going on in that survey. I had a follow up question. I did another three minutes of thinking. It made some charts for me, which was very nice. This is all ordinary stuff. But then I activated the Canvas tool and I said, write a two to three page report with charts and tables, highlighting the most specific findings. And here's what Canvas is. Canvas is a text editor that can exist live in a side panel. And what's nice about Canvas is rather than having to paste what chat gives you into Word or, or Google Docs or whatever text editor you use, it can live right here and you can actually talk to chat PT about anything in your document. So if I highlight this, I can say make this a narrative, not bullets. And if my internet is working well and uh, everything is working the way it should, Chachi PT is gonna take a couple of seconds. Now, I still had this on the, uh, the oh three mode and it just rewrote that section from bullet points into a narrative answer, right? It also has some suggested there's this button at the bottom, right? When you're using Canvas that says, some of the most frequently requested, do you want to make it longer or shorter? Do you want to adjust the reading level, right? You can open something in Canvas and say, I actually need this more for an elementary school audience or for a PhD level audience. You can just suggest that it polishes a particular section. So Canvas allows you to really work on a document, and it can include tables, it can include figures, but it allows you to work on a document and make edits without having chat GBT rewrite the whole thing every time that you give it some feedback. And so that's Canvas. Another another tool that I find pretty useful on a regular basis. Let's look at projects, um, projects in the, you know, in some ways it's a fancy way of working with sort of customizing your experience of working with Chat. Bt um, and, uh, custom gpt are another, and to be honest, there's quite a bit of overlap between the projects feature and the custom GPT feature. I'm gonna start with projects. Um, 'cause I actually think even though it's a, a more recent, maybe even more advanced feature, uh, it's a little bit more straightforward to understand projects basically says you don't have to start every chat GPT conversation from scratch every time. I know that's what I've done for my first six months of using it. Every time I came, I clicked the new chat button and we started from scratch. And I had to explain some things. It knew, it remembered what I had plugged into that customize button. But otherwise we were starting from scratch. Every time when you create a project and you can have unlimited projects, you can give it permanent information to remember. That also expands over time. So you can upload documents. So here's a project where I'm thinking about this now, this AI sprint that I run, and I've put up our PowerPoints, I've put in my budget a list of who we're working with. I've given it some detailed instructions similar to how you would do in a customized thing, but you can have instructions just for that relative project. And what's most exciting, you can put earlier chats and future chats, individual conversations into the project. So what you're basically doing is creating a robot that has all of the general knowledge of chat GPT, but the specific knowledge of the particular project you're working on. And it can be truly a project. It could also be a function, it could be you have your marketing project and your finance project. Uh, but every time you get to come back, you can start a new chat, a new conversation that has a very specific set of memories essentially associated with that project. And similarly, we've got custom gpt and gpt are basically apps that chat. GPT lets you build yourself that have some of the same features of the projects I was just describing for you. So here's A GPT that I call my AI project advisory board. And anyone can go create GPTs anytime you want. I would argue this is again, a situation where it's maybe not the, the best name in the world. 'cause we're all using chat GPT, and this is called A GPT. It would be cool if they were named, you know, um, Fredericks or something. I don't know. We, we, we probably need a better name for these things. Um, if you create and edit your GPT directly, you go into the guts of it. Not so different than how you customize chat GPT for yourself or how you create a project. You've got your advisory board, your description, my instructions for this GPT are, I want you to be an advisory board, bring in multiple viewpoints, philanthropist, nonprofit leader, business leader, so that every time I interact with it, it's giving me those multiple perspectives. Again, I can upload different documents into its kind of permanent memory just for this particular GPT. Um, and again, when you're working with gpt, you can give them different personas, different backgrounds, different functions, and you can have 10 of them going on one for fundraising, one to help you polish your public communications, et cetera. There is a version of, if, if you don't go to the configure button, you can actually have a conversation with chat GPT where it writes the instructions to put in the configure box. So that sounds very meta. Um, but in other words, even if you don't want to type your own instructions directly in, you can talk to it and say, I would like to create A GPT that accomplishes the following. So what's great about GPTs is, um, unlike projects at this point, I believe GPTs are shareable exactly the way you want. Um, and I'm gonna, when you're editing the, let's see here, I'm gonna edit the GPT again. When you share your GPT, you can decide it's only for you. You can decide it's anyone who you give the link to. So if you're on a team and you create a little GPTA little mini robot to help you with something, you can give it to anybody on your team, or you can actually make it public to the world, uh, in what, uh, what OpenAI calls the GPT store. And some of these have been viewed, you know, uh, thousands, tens of thousands of times. Um, if you think you have something that the world might want to see. So I'm gonna pause the, uh, the demos here. I wanna share a couple last, uh, last thoughts, and then we will, I think, stop sharing the screen. We'll invite Lauren and maybe Alex to come back and we'll have a conversation based on the questions that you all have been sharing over the past hour. So, again, you know, I, I'm Rich Lime Cider. Um, so happy to have been with you all running this thing called the AI for Nonprofit Sprint. As we told you, you know, it is an effort to work with more than a hundred nonprofit organizations. We have some really wonderful partners. Many of you all in this conversation today are from some of these organizations, and here are just some of the, uh, a hundred plus nonprofits that we're working with now. But I do want to invite that if you are in a leadership role at a nonprofit organization and you think partnering with our AI for nonprofit Sprint, this project to help all staff at a nonprofit reach basic AI literacy, if you're in a leadership role at a nonprofit and think that working with us could be for you, please feel free to, uh, hit this QR code or find us online as well. Um, we have a waiting list. We're at capacity, but would love to, to stay connected with you all over time. Thank you so much. Really appreciate your time today, and I look forward to hearing what's come up through the, uh, through the q and a features. Awesome. Um, thanks so much, rich. That was super helpful. I know I learned a lot and I'm sure a lot of our, uh, viewers did as well. Um, and yeah, just to reintroduce myself for those who joined late, I'm Alex the, uh, program manager for Opening Eye Academy. Um, joined here by Lauren, who's one of our fantastic solutions engineers. So we will, uh, do our best to get to some of the questions that were raised, um, in the chat. Um, with that, let's jump in. I think one question I saw that I was really interested in, um, is about once you upload an image to chat GPT, uh, will it be safe there forever or will it be deleted at some point? And maybe more generally, just like how should users be thinking about, um, how, um, data is saved, um, in chat GPT? Yeah, I can jump in on this one, Alex. Um, so to answer that question specifically as a starting point, when you upload an image into chat GPT, we are not storing that permanently on our servers. Basically, we are just using that to process whatever request you submitted, and then as soon as that response is processed and an answer is provided, that image is then deleted. So it's, it's not getting like, committed to our servers for hard storage at that point. More broadly, uh, thinking about security, um, you know, keep in mind that on all of our plans, including free all data is going to be encrypted both in transit and at rest. Um, and then on our enterprise offerings, so teams and Chat, GPT Enterprise, um, we guarantee that your data is never used for training or, you know, shared in any way with, with other instances. Um, so, and then, you know, also keep in mind some of the, the tips that Rich shared earlier on with your settings of how you can, you know, determine how cha GBT is remembering or not remembering past conversations with you. And then finally, you always have the ability to go in and, and delete those former chats if you're, they're no longer serving you any purpose. Awesome. And, And Lauren, I think I remember, remember, do you mind if I just jump in a little bit? Please. Um, I think I remember there's a, can you speak to, but I think there's like a webpage for, for IT staff and people who are more sophisticated than I am to understand the degree to which chat GPT is compliant with all of this, like alphabet soup of SOC and HIPAA and GDPR and all this sort of stuff. How if people, if people know enough to know what that is, how do they find out how comfortable they should be? Good call out Rich. So, um, if, if you are one of those people who understands all of those fun acronyms and alphabet soup of the security world, and we're looking for our certifications and compliance reports, you can go to our trust portal, I believe it's trust.openai.com. But I will verify that and then have Alex, uh, or Jane send that out in the chat as well. And all you need to do, if you wanna access those reports is sign up for an account, uh, within our trust portal. Once that's approved, then you should be able to download those reports. And I will just say, as someone who's on the not who works, you know, every day on the nonprofit side, my personal feeling and approach is, I mean, we know hacks happen. Like we know the internet isn't perfect out there in the world. Um, my my feeling is that it's worth kind of, there, there may be some things that nonprofits just don't want to ever have on the internet, period. They don't wanna have in the cloud. They're thinking about security, they're thinking about conversations that are happening with certain vulnerable folks. That is reasonable. Um, but I also think that, uh, most of the organizations I work with are in fact putting information they believe is quite confidential and sensitive onto the cloud all the time, right? We're, when we're emailing it, it's going into the cloud when it's living in a Microsoft SharePoint server or it's, it's sitting as a, you know, in the Google cloud, we're actually putting stuff, uh, uh, through, you know, uh, uh, you know, online all the time. And so my sense is that sort of whatever processes and procedures we're thinking about for our other data, um, with other companies that are making similar pro promises sort of make sense here. And so, to be really blunt, um, it's, it's never been entirely clear to me why we would be more nervous about, um, putting stuff with a reputable company in AI than, than we should have already been, um, in the fact that we're sharing all kinds of information online all the time. So I'm personally, I'm, I'm generally pretty comfortable sharing things. Awesome. Yeah, thank you for that. There, there's a couple more questions about images. Maybe we'll stick on that theme. Um, one is about whether it's possible to delete images from the library. I think that's a pretty new feature, this image library, which a lot of people are excited about. Um, maybe let's start there 'cause I forgot what the second one was. Oh, I found the second one. The second one was about whether people should remove metadata from images before uploading them. Yes. So, okay, let's start with the library as a starting point. So when, whenever you ask chat GBT to create an image for you, once it's done, it is putting it in that library for you so that you have kind of easier reference to it. I think that's especially helpful for like graphic designers and folks who are using that feature really heavily and may not know exactly where in their like chat history, they got a specific image. Um, and it is a little bit counterintuitive, but if you want to delete images from that library, all you have to do is actually go delete the chat itself. So, you know, whatever chat you have in the left hand side where you prompted chat GBT to create that image for you, if you delete that particular chat, you'll notice that it will disappear from your library as well. Got it. Great. And what about the metadata? Uh, yeah, so I mean, this is a good question and it's, it's really dependent on what type of metadata is in that image and what you are personally comfortable with sharing. Also, what your organization's policy is. Um, definitely wanna make sure everyone here is, you know, following their company's guidelines on what they're allowed to share in tools like chat, GPT. But, um, you know, if, if, depending on what you're asking, chat GPT, like a, a fun one that I'll use as an example here that I think gained a lot of popularity when our reasoning models were first released was the idea of using chat GBT as a geo guesser. So uploading a random image and asking chat GBT to go figure out where was this photo taken with, without any like, visual marker symbols on the photo itself. And if you're kind of testing its capabilities in that way, you wanna remove the metadata so that you're not giving it like the underlying hints and clues that are gonna just be a dead giveaway are. But by and large, I, I don't typically go through the, the process of removing the metadata. Um, but again, I am being mindful of, you know, not sending an, sending any sensitive info into chat GPT. Got it. Yep, that makes sense. Um, so one question here about the reasoning models. Uh, the question is like, can we make them faster? But maybe to broaden that a little bit, can you share a little bit about like why they're slower than, um, some of the other models and maybe like what the purpose of the mini models is, um, as well? Yeah, so I touched on this when I was kind of briefly covering the overview of our various different models. Um, and Alex, maybe this is a, a whole other academy session that we plan for some time in the future, but the, the reasoning models, like I mentioned beforehand, are really designed to take their time and to think through the task that you give it with the chain of thought that a human would. So if you give it a research task, it's going to actually go out and conduct that research and look for information out on the web that it has access to and pull as much data as it possibly can in order to give you the most robust source of information to ultimately create that memo or output that you're looking for. Um, so that invariably does take some time. Now the mini models are basically distilled versions of those reasoning models that we've been able to make smaller so that they can complete those tasks more quickly. But the trade-off, of course, anytime that you're asking a really complex reasoning model to move faster is it's looking at less information. So if you are trying to ask it to really, you know, get as much information as possible, give it that 10 to 15 minutes that it's going to need still probably hours or, or days faster than what any individual human is going to be able to go out and do. Um, but those mini models are really good for any type of like, faster reasoning activity that you're looking for chat GBT to accomplish. Awesome. That's great. Lauren, are there limits to different, to the number of different instances you can have going on or across different platforms when you have sort of one account? Are you talking about in different models themselves? Or can I, yeah, I mean, can I just, can I have chat GPT running in six tabs and on my phone I do, I have probably about 20 different chat GBT tabs open at any given point in time. Um, the one thing that you'll notice that is kind of the, the only limitation I've come across is you can't be signed into multiple accounts on the same device at the same time. You can easily toggle between those different accounts. Uh, but if you toggle in one browser tab to your personal account and you've got professional pulled up in another one, it will switch over to your personal in both locations. Cool. Um, so I wanna kinda circle back to nonprofits specifically. Um, I wonder, rich, if you think there are particular use cases where nonprofits might think about automation, like a task that they do a lot, and then, uh, how they might go about automating it and maybe, maybe Rich you can start and Lauren you can add anything. Yeah, I mean, I think, um, there's a couple of things that are opportunities that are pretty distinct in the nonprofit or the social sector. And then there are some things that I think are really very, very similar, uh, to the, to the way any individual or organization might think about, um, you know, using a gen AI tool. I think the, um, you know, for the most part the organizations we're working with these a hundred, you know, a hundred plus nonprofits, um, every single one of them has always felt like they were, you know, only doing a quarter of the work they wanted to do in the world. So frankly, the opportunities to invest in, um, you know, working with a gen AI tool to automate any kind of task are really the, the, the benefits are really gonna accrue toward, um, fighting burnout among staff. You know, maybe that social worker just gets to go home a little bit earlier that night, or supporting more people, more young people, more patients, more folks coming into a drop-in center, um, as opposed to, uh, thinking about ways to frankly cut teams or, you know, or reduce workforce. I think the social sector is gonna have a pretty different perspective on the opportunities in terms of working with gen AI because there's so much more work to be done. Um, I think the, you know, the, uh, uh, some of the stuff that doesn't change is, um, oh, and sorry. And then the second thing is, and this is true for some pri you know, for some places in the private sector, not for everywhere, um, for the most part in the social sector, you know, we want people to automate the parts of their job that don't involve engaging with humans and especially vulnerable populations to maximize the amount of time the human has to engage with the human. So if I was still running the legal services organization, I want my paralegals and my social workers and my attorneys spending less time writing letters, uh, to school principals and things like that, and spending more time every single week actually engaging, you know, meeting with young people and getting on calls and really supporting folks directly. And so I think those are, you know, those are important opportunities where the automation comes from. Um, I actually think looks, looks very much like what's gonna happen in a lot of other, uh, you know, in a lot of other sectors. I, I do think people in accounting and finance should be using AI to, you know, manage reimbursement receipts faster than they always, you know, than they had to. Uh, in the past. I think leaders, um, should be role playing with Gen AI to practice for tough conversations on their team or with, you know, outside investors, funders, uh, you know, things like that. And I'm deeply excited, uh, particularly from a, uh, uh, from an inclusion perspective about opportunities to support professional development using gen ai, uh, allowing people who come from lots of different backgrounds, uh, to use role playing in other, uh, you know, o other tools that chat GPT can offer to get better at their jobs when they wouldn't have had those opportunities before. Um, so there's a, there's a little bit that there's, that's different and I think there's a lot that's actually the same. Awesome. Yeah, I think, you know, one thing I might add, um, yeah. You know, I to work at nonprofits before joining OpenAI, and I think one thing that can really be, uh, tiresome to people working in nonprofits, whether on the program side or fundraising, uh, is all the kind of repetitive writing you might have to do for grants and for grant reporting. So I met one nonprofit leader, um, from the Bronx who took all of their program, uh, literature, so you know, their website, some of their, um, annual reports uploaded that the chat bt and then would use that to kind of fill out some of the repetitive questions that you get in those reporting forms. You know, what's the mission of your organization in 50 words, and then what's the 200 word version of that? Um, so I think that can be something that's really powerful is just like writing that first draft of content, uh, and then you can spend time on, you know, the unique parts, um, that are the most important. Um, cool. Let me see, what else do we have here? Laura and Lauren, if you thought we missed anything in the presentation or if it triggered anything for you? Um, No, I think, um, rich, you covered all of the things that immediately came to mind for me with that question. Um, you know, just maybe doubling down on the, the last thing you mentioned, which is giving everyone access to more information than they previously, you know, could have imagined having access to. Um, I saw a quote recently, I'm blanking on who said it, but it's the hottest new program programming language is English. And I love that because I think it really speaks to the fact that you don't have to be a, a master have gone through master classes in Python or JavaScript in order to start working as a, or to play around as a software developer. Um, anyone who has access to chat GB tool T can start playing around with these skill sets. And it just really speaks to the idea that we're democratizing access to information across all topics and industries so that people can just do more with their time. Um, and I think, you know, to your point also being able to spend more time on those human interactions that are so valuable in the nonprofit segment is just incredibly impactful to the mission that everyone is serving. Yeah, I love that. Thanks Flo. And I, I think that quote was, um, Andre who was one of the openly eye founders, um, now at Tesla. Um, okay, so we, we've covered a lot of the questions. Uh, I think there's one I think might be good to end on, which is, uh, maybe for each of you, what's one of the use cases of AI that you've seen in the wild, um, that you found like most impressive or most interesting, uh, that might be interesting to this audience? I'm gonna let you go first. Yeah, I mean there's, you know, there's so many and we have a community of practice of, uh, across the nonprofits we're working with, you know, they have tens of thousands of staff, but we've got 450 that are coming together on a monthly basis and really just sort of working through, um, you know, sharing examples, sharing best practices. I think, you know, the people are very clearly Alex, just like you say, that they're frankly saving a lot of time on writing repetitive tasks. They're, you know, they're, they're developing frameworks for PowerPoint presentations that would take them, you know, sort of hours and days. Um, but I, I will say, uh, you know, e even, you know, given all of the um, uh, the, the advanced features and other things we were talking about today, I still think the role playing abilities are the, the parts that have been most impressive to me because I, I think it supports so many different nonprofit staff in different functions, in different, um, you know, in different roles. I'm, uh, I'm super excited by some of the preliminary research that shows how, uh, effective and useful tools like chat GPT are to folks in the neurodivergent community. Um, we're, you know, we're learning that people who've been given feedback their whole careers, that they're too blunt or too direct or they're, you know, they, they're engaging in the workplace in a way that, that you know isn't right. They're actually running their, you know, written communications, they're practicing for conversations, they're using the robots to help them in a way come across as more human. Um, which is kind of interesting and has its own philosophical ramifications, but the opportunity to really interact with a a sort of always available fake person, um, I just think is, is already making a really significant difference to a lot of the people we're working with. And maybe along a similar vein, you know, this isn't, this isn't a totally like transformational use case, but something that I have started to leverage chat GPT for day in and day out is to really help me with some of those repetitive tasks that just suck up a lot of my day. So, for instance, you know, I'm, I'm speaking with customers a lot throughout the day and sometimes I have handwritten notes in 20 different places. And the last thing I wanna do at the end of the day is go type up those notes, turn them into something sensical that I can share out with the team, you know, do that cleanup effort. And so what I have started to do is just take photos of all of my notes if they're handwritten or even just screenshots from the 10 different tabs where I've taken notes, and then I send them into chat GBT and ask it to give me a, a quick summary that I can share back with everyone to keep us on track for that customer work. Um, and then the other thing I love to do is use voice mode, which you demonstrated Rich, to just kind of stream of conscious at the end of the day, share some reflections, what went well, what I think that didn't go well, areas where I could improve. And then any to do that I need to kind of add to my task list. And I'll just ask Patrick BT as a follow up, can you just send me a, a quick gimme your recommendations on priorities so that I go into the next day with that hit list of things that I should be focusing on? Yeah, I, I love that one, Lauren. Um, I think using voice mode is great for that. I think something else you can do is just re record your voice and then send it in the chat. Um, I did that, you know, if you imagine this is like the end of a long day, maybe you're cooking dinner and you like can't get work off your mind because you have a million things running through it and you just like stream of conscious, like, here's all the things that I'm thinking about. Can you organize it and send it back? Or can you, you know, convert this into a slack message that I can send my team that like makes sense, um, which at the end of a long day, you know, that's like a long time and uh, painful thing to do and it saves you so much time. So that's that definitely a favorite one of mine. Um, awesome. So before we wrap up, I just wanna let everybody know that, um, this is really just the beginning of the content that we're going to have for nonprofits. So would definitely recommend people come back, check out Open AI Academy, there will be content specifically for nonprofits, there'll be content for other audiences that you might still find useful. Um, so be on the lookout for that. And then, yeah. Rich, is there anything else you wanna share? Anything, um, about resources or anything else that you want the audience to know before we sign off? No. So grateful to, to you all, grateful to the partnership with OpenAI that we've had over the past year and thanks for letting me be here. Awesome. Well thanks a lot Rich, and thank you Lauren, and we'll see you all next time. Bye guys. Thanks everyone.

</details>
