# AI for Nonprofits: Prompting 101

<!-- vimeo: 1101761957 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1101761957)

<details>
<summary>자막: AI for Nonprofits: Prompting 101</summary>

Hi, my name is Kyle, and in this video we are gonna be exploring the concept of prompting. Prompting is a foundational skill when working with AI tools like Chat, GPT. In this video, we are gonna be exploring what is prompting. We are then gonna look at the difference between conversational versus task-based prompting. We're gonna look at what are the components that make up a good prompt. I'm gonna share with you some of my favorite prompting tips and techniques, and if you stick around till the end, you'll get access to a prompt generator, custom GPT, that will leverage all of these best practices and create incredibly powerful prompts for you to use. So let's jump right in. What is prompting? Prompting is how we communicate with a large language model. Large language models can be seen as the brain behind tools such as chat, GPT, technically chat, GPT is an interface that allows us to interact with AI models like GPT-4 oh or O three. But in this video, for simplicity's sake, I may speak about prompting chat, GPT. Now, there's three ways we can actually communicate. The first is by typing in text into this input field. The second is using the dictate function, and the third is using voice. So let's have a look at what this looks like. In chat GPT, you have the ability to type in text here. So I can say, please help me draft an email reply and then paste the email below. And this is how we are instructing the ai, what we would like it to do. But we can also use the dictation function, which is one of my favorite features because it allows us to give a lot more context, a lot quicker. To use dictation, simply click on this microphone and then just speak. I'm currently doing a video on how AI can be used to help nonprofit organizations. Can you please list me 10 ways? Simply click on that tick box and anything that you have said will be converted into text. You can now make any edits or adjustments. And when you're ready, you can click on the send button, which then sends that prompt, that instruction to the ai, and then it provides a response back to us. And here we've got 10 ideas of ways AI can help nonprofit organizations. The third way that you can prompt AI is by using the voice mode. This brings up an interface where you have a back and forth conversation with an AI using voice mode, which is really handy if you download the app or you just want to have more of a voice-based interaction with the ai. Now let's have a look at the difference between conversational versus task-based prompting. I've got two examples here. The first is I need to write a grant proposal, but don't know where to start. Can you help me please? And this is an example of the start of a conversational type prompt. A conversational prompt is where we have a back and forth dialogue with the ai. We ask the AI question, it provides feedback. We go back and forth with it. Very similar to how you would speak to a friend, a family member, or a colleague at work. Task-based prompting is we are a lot more clear about the specific task we would like the AI to complete. In this example, I say write to persuasive and emotionally compelling fundraising email to help a nonprofit organization raise $10,000 for a new shelter dedicated to rescued dogs. Now, you can potentially get to the same output both ways. For an example, if we started with the conversational prompting, we could say, I would like to create a fundraising email. Please help me get the AI to ask us questions. And then at the end, we could ask it to create this fundraising email. So you may see an overlap between these two types of prompting, but when we progress into the structured prompting, you'll see how much more defined task-based prompting gets. Now, there are some specific components that make up a good prompt. AI has been trained on vast, vast amounts of information. So really what we are doing with the prompting is narrowing its view. We are defining what we would like it to do in a specific way. So the most important thing, the most important thing is context. One of the biggest mistakes I see is that users do not provide the AI with enough context for the specific task. An example could be saying to the ai, please write a fundraising email. Now, the AI doesn't have the context about what is the fundraising email about? What is your organization? What is your mission and your vision? What is your communication style? How many call to actions are you asking for in the email? How would you like the subject line? How would you like the format of the email? All of that information is context, and the more context you can provide to the ai, the better it will be able to do its job. And that is one of the reasons that I love the dictation function so much because it's so much easier just to provide much more context through a voice format than it is to type. The second component is clear instructions. What are we specifically asking the AI to do? Are we asking it to write a fundraising email or we are asking it to write a Facebook post? Those are two very different tasks and we need to be clear with our instructions. The third is you can ask the AI to adopt a persona in the situation of the fundraising email. We would like the AI to act as a fundraising expert, someone skilled in copywriting, maybe even someone who has knowledge about behavioral science and psychology so that they can integrate those types of skills into the output. So a persona is a very powerful way to get the AI to leverage knowledge around a specific topic to your task. The fourth is asking for a desired output, even within a fundraising email. Are we looking for four paragraphs or six paragraphs? Do we want two call to actions? Or three, are they gonna be buttons or links? Do you want it in raw text or HTML? We need to be clear about how we would like to receive our output. The fifth is we would like to structure our prompts using raw markdown. Raw markdown sounds complicated, but I promise you it's a lot simpler than it sounds. And we are gonna look at that after we touch on our sixth point, which is examples. LLMs are very much like patterning machines, and if you can give it three to five examples, it'll create outputs that are much similar to that than without them. All of this can be seen as if working with an assistant. Imagine assistants join you on their first day and their job, and you ask them to write a fundraising email. They'll go out, they'll do it for you, but it's potentially not gonna be very good. But if you were to say to this assistant, this is the information about our organization, this is our mission, our vision, how we write fundraising emails, this is the information about the fundraising email. I'd like you to create. How much we wanna raise, when we wanna raise it, what we are gonna do with those funds. And here's three examples of previous fundraising emails. The assistant is gonna be able to do a much better job based on all of that context. These are the components that come together to create a good prompt. Now let's have a look at what a structured prompt using raw markdown looks like. So I've got a prompt here. We've got a task for the ai. Write a persuasive and emotionally compelling fundraising email to help a nonprofit organization raise $10,000 for a new shelter dedicated to rescued dogs. We have a persona, we have some more context. We've got an output format, and we have examples. Now, us as humans looking in, this can actually identify the hierarchy. We can see task is a heading one persona is a heading. Two examples is also a heading two, but then the examples within that section are heading threes. We also have some bolding here, persuasive and emotionally compelling fundraising email is bolded. Now we can actually see this. We can understand everything sits within the task of what we are trying to complete. But what happens is if you copy this and take it to chat GBT and paste it in, you'll see that we lose all of that formatting. We are only able to use plain text in chat, GPT. So we need to use something called raw markdown to provide structure. And all you need to remember is hashtags and asterisk. So how do we do this? A single hashtag represents heading one. Two hashtags represent heading two. So I'm gonna add it to these sections here. These are all heading twos. And then three hashtags represent heading three. So providing these hashtags shows the AI that this is actually heading one. This is the most important part of the prompt. What are we actually asking it to do? Then we have heading twos and heading threes. And you can add four, five hashtags for heading four, heading five, et cetera. Now, how do we indicate bolding to indicate bolding? All we do is put two asterisks on each side of the section that you would like bolded. Now, if we copy this and put it into chat, GPT, again, we are not gonna have that rich formatting, but we now have our hashtags which indicate to the ai, what is the most important part of this heading? Ones heading twos, heading threes and bolding indicated by asterisk. So that's all you gotta remember, hashtags and asterisks, as I said, it is a lot easier than it sounds. And remember, I've got a tool for you that will actually help create these structured prompts coming up later in the video. So let's have a look at some of my favorite prompting tips and techniques. I've mentioned this once, and I'll mention it again and again. I love dictation because it allows us to give the AI more context in an easier and quicker way. I'm not the fastest typer, so I find enabling dictation and just rambling on and brain dumping everything that I need to is a much more effective way for me to provide context. If you love typing, go for it. But the important part is to provide enough context to the ai. The second tip is to ask the AI to ask you questions. So let's jump back into chat GPT and see how this can work. I'm an enable dictation. I would like to create a fundraising email. Please ask me any questions you need to get the context required to complete this task. Now, by asking the AI to ask us questions, it's a way that the AI can then still get the context it needs by simply going in this conversational type flow. So this is a conversational prompt. This is one where we are asking the AI to ask us questions, and you'll see that it's gonna ask all of the information that it needs. What is the name of the organization? What cause or issue do you focus on? What specific fundraising goal do you have? What will the funds be used for, et cetera, et cetera. One other tip for this is you can always come back and edit this message, and one thing I like to add is please ask one question at a time. Otherwise, as you can see, you sometimes get bombarded with 10, 15 questions all at once. All right, so here we've got one question and we can go back and forth with the AI in that conversational style prompt. The third is you can actually suggest to the AI to take a breath before responding. Now, obviously AI can't breathe, but studies have shown by simply adding this, it can provide better output. The fourth is to offer a tip or reward. Again, you're not going to be giving the AI the specific tip, maybe a hundred dollars or $50, but by saying things like, if you do this task really well, I'll tip you, $50 almost motivates the AI to do a better job. The fifth is to use a structured prompt using raw markdown, using all of those components that make up a good prompt are gonna provide you much better outputs. Number six is examples. They're so powerful in showing the ai what does good look like? And number seven is, remember, you can always ask the AI to do the task again. And something really interesting happens when you ask the AI to try again. Often you'll find something a little bit less predictable, and I personally love using this technique because that is the power of working with ai, is that you can ask it to try it again and again and again until it gets it right. Well, you've stuck to this point. So now you get access to the prompt generator, custom GPT. You can scan this QR code or click on the link below and it'll take you to this custom GPT, which will allow you to create structured prompts based on the task that you're trying to complete. For this example, we are gonna stick with creating a fundraising email. So I'm just gonna paste that in here, create a fundraising email. Again, the more context you can provide, the better. If you've got information about your organization, your mission, your vision, you can even go to your website and just copy your whole website page and dump it in here. But I'm just gonna do a bit of a generic fundraising email prompt, and you can see it's creating it using the raw markdown that we spoke about before. Plus all of these components. Task write a compelling fundraising email designed to motivate recipients to donate while establishing trust, creating urgency and emotionally connecting with the reader persona. You are an Expert nonprofit copywriter with a proven track record of crafting high conversation fundraising emails. You deeply understand donor psychology, the nonprofit sector storytelling for impact and persuasive writing techniques. So this is incredible. This is so powerful. You can now take this, copy it, take it to something like Google Docs, paste it in, make any edits that you would like, and then use this in chat GPT or take it one step further and create a custom GPT with these instructions. So I hope you enjoy using this prompt generator. It's a tool that I use almost every day. I trust you. Enjoyed this video and now have a much better understanding about prompting. All that's left is to jump into chat GPT and start experimenting.

</details>
