# AI for Nonprofits: Creating a Custom GPT

<!-- vimeo: 1101757626 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hi, my name is Kyle, and in this video we're gonna look at how we can create a strategic advisor for your nonprofit organization. We are gonna be creating a custom GPT that has access to your strategic plan. So let's have a look at how we're gonna do this. First, we're gonna explore what is a custom GPT. We're gonna look at how you can create your own custom GPT with the understanding of the difference between what we put in the instructions versus what we put in the knowledge files. We're gonna explore a bit about the recommended model, some of the capabilities that custom gpt provide. And as part of this, we're gonna be creating a strategic advisor, GPT. So I highly recommend you build as you follow along with this video. And by the end, you can have an incredibly powerful strategic advisor available 24 7 that has access to your strategic plan and can help you ideate and problem solve accordingly. So what is a custom GPTA? Custom GPT is described as a custom version of chat GPT that combines specific instructions, extra knowledge, and a combination of skills. So if you've never created a custom GPT before, I'm gonna show you how to do that first. On the left hand side, we are gonna be opening up the sidebar. Then just underneath Codex and Sawa, you're gonna find something called gts. Click on that and here you'll actually find a range of custom gpt that have been published and made available to the general public. Feel free to have a search through and experiment with some of these, but we are gonna be creating our own. So on the top right click on the create button, when you do, you'll be provided with the screen. And we have two ways to create the custom GPT. One is using this create mode where we actually interact with chat GPT in a back and forth manner. That chat, GPT is able to get enough context to create this custom GPT, but we wanna manually create it using it the configure mode. So the first thing we need to do is name the GPT. So I'm gonna name it strategic Advisor, but you can be a bit more creative and come up with a specific name. And I've got a bit of a description here. Say this. Custom GPT is designed to act as your strategic thought partner, helps you think through complex decisions, explore long-term goals, and align your actions with your mission and priorities. Drawing on proven frameworks and critical questioning techniques that offers insights and clarity. After you've created the name in the description, you can then generate an image. Now if you've got a logo for your organization, you can upload it there. Otherwise you can use AI to generate an image for us. Also, create like a nice little icon that visually represents this custom GPT. Great. So we have a nice little icon with an L. And if you don't like it, you can create a new image. Now the next thing we need to be aware of is the instructions and the knowledge files. This is how we are going to be instructing this custom GPT about what to do and the knowledge that it has access to when completing these tasks. So the instructions is gonna be the prompt. And if you haven't watched the prompting video, I highly recommend watching that because it'll explain all of the components that make up a good prompt. And this will be very important for consistency when instructing this custom GPT, the instructions are also fed through to the AR model. Every single time we interact with this custom GPT. In contrast, we have the ability to upload knowledge files. These are often gonna be PDFs that we upload. Our strategic plan is gonna be uploaded as a knowledge file. If you've got a communication style guide or any other supplementary material, you can upload that in the knowledge files, but the knowledge files are processed in a different way to the instructions. We're not gonna get too technical in this video, but what happens is those knowledge files are chunked into different segments. And then depending on the query that the user asks to the custom GPT, the AR will actually retrieve information from those knowledge files to help assist with that query. So it doesn't read through the whole PDF every single time. It'll go and extract information that it thinks is most relevant to the specific user query. So anything you want to give to the AI to know every single time you are interacting with it, you do want to put into this instructions. Knowledge files are gonna be additional resources that it can reference as required. So first, we need to give this custom GPT instructions about what it is doing, and it explains here, what does this GPT do? How does it behave? What should it avoid doing? Now we are going to use the structured prompt generator that was introduced in the prompting video because this creates a very powerful prompt for you in raw markdown using the components needed. I'm gonna enable dictation and explain what I would like. Please create a prompt for a custom GPT that acts as a strategic advisor to a nonprofit organization. This custom GPT has access to this organization's strategic plan in its knowledge files and should reference that when answering any of the user's queries. So I've got the instructions about what I would like the AI to do, and now this prompt generator is gonna create a prompt using raw markdown that we can then put into the custom GPT, so it's finished running. And I'm gonna copy this, come back to our custom GPT and paste it in. Now I recommend reading through this, making any necessary tweaks and changes as well as adding the context about your specific organization. This is a very general one for the purpose of this video, but you can personalize this more to your organization. Now that we have a well structured prompt, we are going to be uploading our knowledge files. I went online and I found a strategic plan for an organization called rewilding Europe. I thought it was really pretty. They got lots of beautiful photos and lots of information that is really important in a strategic plan. They've got their goals, their vision, their mission, their values, their objectives, et cetera, et cetera. So I thought this would be a good example to use. So back in our custom GPT, I'm now gonna upload that file. So rewilding Europe PDF is now uploading and when it finishes uploading, it will be processed in a way that the AI can reference it as required. If you would like, you can add some conversational starters. These are little buttons that the user can click on to start the custom GPT. So please help me explore a challenge. And you can see on the right hand side in the preview, it is creating that little button for the user to click on. If you don't want any conversation starters, you can just x out of that and have a blank custom GPT. The next setting we need to choose is the recommended model. At the moment, we're able to choose between a range of different models. If you're not comfortable with model selection, just allow the user to choose any model that they prefer. But I find for strategy, using a reasoning model like O four mini can provide better outputs. So I'm gonna choose O four mini for our strategic advisor. The next setting we have is the capabilities. What tools do we want this custom GPT to have access to web search? Yes, definitely. If we are gonna be doing things like SWOT analysis, we want it to be able to leverage real time information to be able to help us with that plan. Canvas is a wonderful feature that allows us to edit documents with in chat GPT. So I love enabling that feature. We potentially may not need image generation. We are more using this as a strategic planner. So I'm going to disable image generation, but I am gonna enable code interpreter and data analysis because if we are gonna be uploading some type of spreadsheets that we want the AI to do analysis on, this is a setting that we definitely do want to enable actions, is a more advanced feature that we won't be looking into in this video. But after that, we are pretty much complete. We've got our icon, our name, our description, the instructions that remember are fed through to the GPT every single time, any conversational starters that you would like, any knowledge files. So at the moment we just have a strategic plan, but you can upload your communication style and any other supplementary material, a recommended model and capabilities. On the right hand side, we've got a preview that we can test out before publishing. So let's do that by asking it to explain our mission. And you can see we are getting personalized responses based on the knowledge that we have uploaded. Rewilding Europe's mission is central to its strategic direction, the mission statement to demonstrate the benefits of Wilder nature through rewilding of diverse European landscapes, and to inspire, enable others to engage in rewilding by providing tools and practical expertise. Let's go back to the strategic plan, find the mission statement, and the mission statement is exactly the same. So the next step is to publish this. On the top right, we wanna click on create, and we have the option of having a GPT that is only available to us, or it can be shared to anyone who has access to the link. And this can be really beneficial if you would like to share this custom GPT with other staff or volunteer members to use. And they can even use this with a free chat GPT account. So I highly recommend enabling anyone with the link and provide this as a resource to other staff members to get strategic help. This is a service that would often be out of the reach of many nonprofits because of cost constraints. But now with chat GPT and custom gpt, it is very accessible and very powerful. The last option is to provide it to the GPT store. But because this is only gonna be used internally, I'm only gonna enable anyone with the link. I'm then gonna click save and a custom link will be created that I can then share with my team. So here we have our link. You can copy that, send it to your team, and click on view GPT. So anyone using this GPT can change the model in the top left corner by selecting different range of models. But we have recommended O four many and now we have an incredibly powerful strategic advisor with access to our strategic plan. So let's give it a spin. Please help us conduct a SWOT analysis for our organization for 2026. Search the web and get real time information about what is happening. And also ask me one question at a time with up to five questions in total to get any information you need to help complete this task. So now we have the AI working with us as a thought partner, getting the information it needs from us from the organizational strategic plan and using web search to be able to create a SWOT analysis. If you would like access to that custom, prompt generated GPT, simply scan this QR code or click on the link below. So now you have a strategic advisor, custom GPT available to you and other staff members in your organization. An incredibly powerful tool that can help you problem solve, idea, ideate, and work through challenges. Custom GPT can be created for a whole range of other uses. So experiment, play around with them and see what provides you with the most value. And if you don't know where to start, ask chat, GPT. Say, I would like to create some custom GPT for my organization. Please help me by asking me one question at a time to get enough context and then provide me with a list of ideas of custom GPT that I can create. So thank you for watching this video and I look forward to seeing you next time.
