# AI for Nonprofits: Using Canva in ChatGPT

<!-- vimeo: 1161259554 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Hi, my name is Kyle and in this video we are gonna look at the new apps that are available in chat GPT. So we're gonna explore what are these chat GPT apps, how they work, and we're gonna do a few examples using Canva. So what are chat GPT apps? These are like little mini integrations that allow access to external tools and software directly within the chat GPT interface. So that means that we don't need to switch windows. We can actually bring these other applications into chat GPT to help us complete specific tasks. So we're gonna now look at how to use these apps and where to set them up. So inside chat, GPT, we're gonna click on this plus icon. We're gonna scroll down to more. And then all the way at the bottom we've got a new option called Explore apps. And this brings up a new page, which shows us a whole range of different apps that are now available to us. We've got Adobe Photoshop, where we can edit stylize and refine images. Airtable, where we can bring in data to church, EBT, apple Music and Spotify where you can create playlists for you. And Canva one of my favorites. So we're gonna click on Canva and then we need to connect it to our account. So we're gonna click on connect and continue. And remember, if you're a registered nonprofit, you can get access to the pro version of Canva completely for free. Now a new window pops up asking us to just check through the permissions that Chachi PT requires to connect to Canva, read through these and ensure they align with your AI policy. And once they do click on allow, this then creates the connection between chat GBT and Canva. So now says Canva is connected and there's two ways now we can actually engage with Canva. So I'm first gonna disable it and click on the plus sign, go down to more and select Canva. And again, we can see that it is enabled because it is showing in our chat bot. The other way you can do it is simply using the at sign and type typing in Canva. And again, we can see that it is enabled. Now I'm gonna use voice dictation. We're gonna mock up a social media poster for an adoption day for dogs this coming Saturday for a rescue organization. Please create a social media post, which is a poster for an upcoming adoption day for dogs this Saturday. Now you should obviously give it a lot more context about you and your organization, but for the purpose of this presentation, we are just gonna simplify that prompt. Okay, so we have a few posters that have been created and already I'm seeing a few that I really like. We've got the adoption, Jay, you know, we can create, we can change this image, which I'm gonna show you in a minute. Uh, this one's really nice adoption day, the Saturday Meet Your Best Friend Adopt Don't Shop. We've got uh, one over here with a bit more details about the actual date, location, and time. And we have last one here called Positive Love in a completely different style, which I think is quite cute as well. I think this one is probably gonna be the best for us to show the feature of editing. And this is where it becomes really powerful. We now have this option here to open in Canva. And if we click on that, that design comes into Canva and is completely editable for us. Maybe it's actually Sunday, I forgot. Oops. Now we can actually select this text and replace it. Everything is completely editable. We can come and change any of the fonts that we would like. I think the previous one was much nicer. We can actually change any of the images by deleting that. Even things like these little icons are completely customizable. You can take this and change it and you can style them in your organizational colors. You can make any changes to the text, including font sizing and colors. And then when you're ready you can download your image and use it on social media. So this is a really quick and effective way to get a nice sample of designs, all leveraging canvas templates and best practices, picking one that you like and then opening it in Canva. Make any necessary adjustments that you would like and you've got a really good visual that would normally have taken a lot longer. Let's jump back to chat GPT and do one more example. First, I'm not gonna start with Canva enabled. Please help me prepare a presentation slide deck. I would just like you to create the text version for it. I'd like five slides about how AI can help nonprofits in particular around chat GPT apps. So I'm just gonna ask chat g GT first to get a bit of information. We're gonna be getting information about how these apps can be used to help nonprofits. So we've got slide one, why AI matters for nonprofits right now, AI, especially chat GT powered apps, can act like a digital team member. They've got purpose builtin tools. Okay, so I would spend a bit of time, you know, refining this and making sure this is correct. But once you're ready, you can now come to Canva and actually ask it to create the slide deck for you. Please use the above text and slide descriptions to create a slide deck for me using a minimalistic but professional looking presentation. So in this example, we're gonna be asking Canva to actually create a whole slide deck for us that again, like our digital poster is gonna be completely editable in Canva. Okay, so Canva has created a few different versions for us. And just looking through it from the top, I think that this one is actually one that resonates with me the most. We've got why AI Matters, which was one of the first slides, understanding Chat GPT apps. And we've got two more slides where chat GPT apps can create value and empowerment. Just, we'll just have a quick look at some of the other ones. Oh, this one's really nice. We've actually added some visuals in here as well. I actually think I prefer this one now. And let's see this one, this one's also quite nice. And last but not least, we had this one over here, which is a completely different style, but again, really interesting how it's actually provided all of these different layouts. So I think actually this one was the one that I liked the most, especially with all of these images. So I'm gonna open up in Canva, and again, this is where we can make any of these changes, how AI can help nonprofits. And we can make this a little bit smaller, Can add my name here. And all of this again, is just completely editable. Any of these images, we can change, any of this text, we can change, we can add, duplicate, or delete any slides and brand it in our own style colors. So hopefully this has shown you just the time saving and efficiency that having these apps directly integrated into chat GPT can provide, especially when you need to create some type of design based resources. I love that it gives us four different options. We can select our favorite one and then it's completely editable. It's like chat. GPT has done all of the heavy lifting, getting a whole range of different templates, pre-populating it with context, and then giving us a version that we can just make some final tweaks and use. So I highly recommend trying out the new apps in particular, Canva, which very generously offers their pro plan for free to nonprofits. And it's like you have a whole design studio working for you directly inside chat GPT. Thank you for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.
