# AI for Nonprofits: Repurposing Content with ChatGPT

<!-- vimeo: 1101761661 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1101761661)

<details>
<summary>자막: AI for Nonprofits: Repurposing Content with ChatGPT</summary>

Hi, my name is Kyle and in this video we are gonna look at how you can repurpose content leveraging chat, GPT, and in particular custom gpt. We're gonna quickly touch on why you should repurpose and how AI can help. We'll look at how we can create a custom GPT for this. How to call custom GPT in a general chat thread. And how to edit the output in Canvas, a very powerful document type editor within chat GPT. So why should you repurpose content? Well, firstly, it allows you to target different audiences. We know that there's different segments of people and different social media channels, different people like consuming information in different way. So by able to repurpose that, we're able to target those different audiences. We then have a one to one-to-many type strategy. We can create one form of content. An example could be a blog post, and that can be repurposed into Facebook, Twitter, substack, video scripts, et cetera, et cetera. So you're taking one source of content and creating many. This will then boost your SEO and discoverability among search engines. It reinforces your message because the more people see your content on different platforms with that consistency, what you're doing and why you're doing it will be reinforced with your supporters. And AI helps you do this by saving time and resources. Traditionally, this can be a very time consuming task. We need to understand the different formats of these different platforms. Rewrite it accordingly. But with chat GPT, custom GPTs, some good prompts and examples, this will be done in a fraction of the top. So the first thing we wanna do is create a custom GPT for this task. So if you've never created a custom GPT, open up your sidebar, click on GPTs, and then on the top right corner create GPT. Now we need to name this GPT. So let's call this BLO to social media. Repurposer definitely not the most creative name, but feel free to create any single name that you would like. I'm just using this for this example so we can call it up easily. So I've added a little description here. This custom GPT transforms long form content like blog posts, newsletters or articles into punchy platform ready social media content. Let's get AI to create a little icon for us. Or if you have your own logo, you can upload it there. Now we need to add the specific instructions. What will this custom GPT be doing so we can open up these expanded view in the bottom right corner. And I've got a bit of a prompt here that I'm gonna use. And if you're Unsure about this formatting and why I've created this prompt in this way, definitely check out the prompting 1 0 1 video. For our task, we are explaining to the AI that we are transforming long form blog posts into concise, engaging Facebook posts while preserving the blog's core message, encouraging user engagement, the persona, they're a social media strategist with expertise in digital marketing and copywriting. And the most important thing to add here is going to be examples. And I recommend you create a custom GPT for each different platform that you post on Facebook, LinkedIn, x, substack, et cetera, so that you can add specific examples that you use in those platforms. By providing examples, we are providing the pattern to the AI that really allows it to do a much better job. So we have a well structured prompt and we have the examples that the custom GPT can leverage in creating messaging that more aligns with our voice, our style, and our organization. Once you've added your examples there, simply click on close. And if you do have any communication style guides, that can either be provided in the instructions or uploaded as a knowledge file. The next thing we wanna check is the recommended model. We want to use GPT-4 oh for this task, the capabilities of the tools that this custom GPT can access while completing the task. It doesn't need web search, but we definitely want canvas and image generation. If you wanna create some images to accompany those social media posts, we are probably not gonna be needing code interpreter and data analysis. So we are pretty much ready. The last step is clicking create and then deciding if you want this GBT only available to you or anyone with the link by using anyone with the link. It creates a custom URL that you can share with other staff members and volunteers that they can then use in their chat GPT account, even the free one to help repurpose content for your organization. You can copy that link and share it and then get ready to jump into that custom GPT. So now we have a blog to social media repurposer. I've got a dummy blog post here. Chat GPT helped create it 10 years of tails, triumphs, and second chances. It's a dog rescue that's celebrating their 10 year anniversary. It's got some information about them, how it began the journey so far, looking ahead and an invitation to join their tenure porte, uh, which I thought was very, very cute. Now this is quite a long article. This isn't necessarily something that would do quite well on Facebook or Instagram. So we really do need to repurpose this and this custom GPT is going to help. So we're gonna copy this And we're gonna go back to our custom GPT. And now all we need to do is simply paste in that whole blog post. So 10 years of tails, triumphs, and second chances all the way to the end. And then click send. And because this custom GPT has already been given the instructions about what it needs to do with the clear prompt and the examples, it's gonna create a very high quality output. Let's scroll down and have a look. We've got 10 years of wags and winds from a trembling tear on the country road to over 4,200 dogs rehomed. And we've got, you know, this Saturday join us for the 10 year porte. We've got hashtags, we've got emojis, et cetera, et cetera. And all of this can be changed in that custom prompt. Let's say for example, you don't want any emojis, you can simply tweak that prompt. So on the top menu where you've got the name of the custom GPT, click on the dropdown menu and click edit GPT in the instructions. We are gonna open that up and we're gonna add a new section called output format. And in here we are gonna say no emojis. So this is what is called iterating the process of updating your prompt continuously until you get it exactly what you want. We are now updating this custom GPT and next time we use it, it won't actually use emojis. So let's try it one more time. Paste in the blog post, click send. And you'll notice now that we don't have any emojis. Now this was all done within the custom GPT itself, but there's a really neat trick where you can call custom G PTs in a chat GPT conversation. And you do that by using the AT symbol. Now there is one caveat. You do have to have used this custom GPT independently before using the AT symbol, otherwise it won't actually bring it up. But now that we've used this custom GPT, we can go back to a new chat and we can call up that custom GPT by using the at symbol. And I'm gonna just gonna type in repurpose, which is the beginning of the name. And you can see I've got two here. One repurpose for Facebook and the one we just created, blog to Social Media repurposer. So I'm gonna click on that one and again, just paste in the blog post, click on enter, and I'm gonna get my Facebook post that has been created from that long form article. If you have a range of custom GPTs to repurpose content for different platforms, you can then cancel that custom GPT and then call up another custom GPT and continue that process. So you can have One thread that has the blog article, but then continuously repurpose it to different platforms by calling that custom GPT for that specific platform. The next thing we wanna look at is how you can actually edit this output in Canvas. Canvas is a document editor built into chat GPT, which is incredibly powerful and very flexible. So to do that, you can see on the bottom here underneath the output, we have a little pen icon. And if you hover over, it says Edit in Canvas. When you click on that, it brings up like a Google Doc type interface where now we can actually come and edit this document in chat GPT. So I can add anything I like here. You can add things, you can delete things, and there's a few other really neat functions we can highlight text and ask Chachi PT just to change that section. So I've highlighted the intro and I'm gonna say, please make the hook longer, and you'll see that everything else remains exactly the same. But that first sentence that we highlighted actually has changed. You can do this with any section. So you can highlight this section and ask Chat GPT to make it shorter or longer, or change the reading level or to rewrite it in a specific style, make it more engaging, more exciting, or to even just provide ideas about how it could be improved. And on the bottom right, we have a few extra functions. We can ask Chat GPT to suggest edits. Acting like an editor, we can adjust the length. Do we want it to be longer or shorter? We can change the reading level. We are looking for academic or more plain English. We can add a final polish just to get it nicely formatted. And if you would like, you can actually add those emojis back. So let's add a couple of emojis on the sections and just see what that looks like. Okay, so now we've actually got our emojis back. Even though we removed them from the custom GPT, we are now able to re-add them in the canvas mode. So you can see that Canvas is very powerful in enabling this in document editor that we can then make any final polishes that we want. This is a philosophy called Keeping the Human in the Loop. We take the AI's output as a draft, we make our final changes, our edits, our tweaks, and now in a fraction of the time, we have repurposed a long form blog article into a Facebook post. So we've now seen how you can take one source of content and repurpose it into many different platform specific content using custom gpt and then Edit it in Canvas. If you would like some help creating that prompt for the custom GPT, try out this prompt generator. You can scan the QR code or click on the link below and it'll take you to a custom GPT that's trained to create well-structured prompts. Here you simply instructed about the task that needs to be completed. I'm gonna use dictation. Please create a prompt that helps me repurpose a Facebook post into a video script that I can use on TikTok. So I'm now sending this to the custom GPT, and you can see I'm getting this well-structured prompt using that formatting that we looked at before that we can now edit and then put into a new custom GPT for another repurposing tool. So now you're equipped with the knowledge of how you can leverage chat, GPT and custom GTS to repurpose your content, to reach new audiences, to reinforce your messaging, to increase your SEO and discoverability all in the fraction of the time. So thank you so much for watching this video and I look forward to seeing you again.

</details>
