<!-- source: https://developers.openai.com/api/reference/python/resources/embeddings/ -->

[Skip to content](#_top)

[API Reference](/api/reference/python)

Copy Markdown

Open in **Claude**

Open in **ChatGPT**

Open in **Cursor**

---

**Copy Markdown**

**View as Markdown**

# Embeddings

Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.

##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/python/resources/embeddings/methods/create)

embeddings.create(EmbeddingCreateParams\*\*kwargs)  -> [CreateEmbeddingResponse](/api/reference/python/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20create_embedding_response%20%3E%20(schema))

POST/embeddings

##### ModelsExpand Collapse

class CreateEmbeddingResponse: …

data: List[[Embedding](/api/reference/python/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding%20%3E%20(schema))]

The list of embeddings generated by the model.

embedding: List[float]

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

index: int

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

object: Literal["embedding"]

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

model: str

The name of the model used to generate the embedding.

object: Literal["list"]

The object type, which is always “list”.

usage: Usage

The usage information for the request.

prompt\_tokens: int

The number of tokens used by the prompt.

total\_tokens: int

The total number of tokens used by the request.

class Embedding: …

Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.

embedding: List[float]

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

index: int

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

object: Literal["embedding"]

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

Literal["text-embedding-ada-002", "text-embedding-3-small", "text-embedding-3-large"]

One of the following:

"text-embedding-ada-002"

"text-embedding-3-small"

"text-embedding-3-large"
