<!-- source: https://developers.openai.com/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings/ -->

[Skip to content](#_top)

[API Reference](/api/reference/go)

Copy Markdown

Open in **Claude**

Open in **ChatGPT**

Open in **Cursor**

---

**Copy Markdown**

**View as Markdown**

# Embeddings

Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.

##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings/methods/create)

client.Embeddings.New(ctx, body) (\*[CreateEmbeddingResponse](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20create_embedding_response%20%3E%20(schema)), error)

POST/embeddings

##### ModelsExpand Collapse

type CreateEmbeddingResponse struct{…}

Data [][Embedding](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding%20%3E%20(schema))

The list of embeddings generated by the model.

Embedding []float64

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

Index int64

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

Object Embedding

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

Model string

The name of the model used to generate the embedding.

Object List

The object type, which is always “list”.

Usage CreateEmbeddingResponseUsage

The usage information for the request.

PromptTokens int64

The number of tokens used by the prompt.

TotalTokens int64

The total number of tokens used by the request.

type Embedding struct{…}

Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.

Embedding []float64

The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).

Index int64

The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.

Object Embedding

The object type, which is always “embedding”.

type EmbeddingModel string

One of the following:

const EmbeddingModelTextEmbeddingAda002 [EmbeddingModel](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding_model%20%3E%20(schema)) = "text-embedding-ada-002"

const EmbeddingModelTextEmbedding3Small [EmbeddingModel](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding_model%20%3E%20(schema)) = "text-embedding-3-small"

const EmbeddingModelTextEmbedding3Large [EmbeddingModel](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource)%20embeddings%20%3E%20(model)%20embedding_model%20%3E%20(schema)) = "text-embedding-3-large"
