# Workflow Clip: Automate CRM Updates with Codex

<!-- vimeo: 1202596507 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

[▶ Watch on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/1202596507)

<details>
<summary>자막: Workflow Clip: Automate CRM Updates with Codex</summary>

So just really quickly, just wanted to show you... Oh, let's slide over here first. A skill that I created. So, the first thing that you're likely going to want to do is build something that's repeatable. So for those of you who are unfamiliar with the idea of a skill, it's essentially just reusable instructions that you could use for templatization or some level of determination, or determinism rather. So, say, for example, if you had a specific template or a specific field that you always wanted to update in the same way, skills are a great use case for something like that. So the first thing that I did for this particular skill was, again, I wanted to, one, be very explicit around what it's supposed to be doing. Right? So in this case, I told it that it's an enterprise account director, with a responsibility to update Salesforce, and that its role was to translate those approved customer and internal account context into accurate and concise Salesforce updates. And then the next really important thing that I wanted to do was give it a sense of what its guardrail should be. Right? So, whenever you're building out a skill, especially if it's something that has write permissions in this case, so, for those of you who are unfamiliar with write permissions, it's basically just the ability to change information within whatever application that you're using. But if you're using something or if you're building something that has write permissions, you want to make sure that you're instilling the write permissions and the right guardrails into that particular use case. Right? So in this case, I said that the workflow should not modify the opportunity amount, should not modify the stage, should not modify the close date forecast category without my explicit approval. Right? So whenever you're building something where you're not sure what level of trust you have in the workflow quite yet, or if there are things that just have higher table stakes, in terms of the changes that you're making to them, if those are mission-critical fields that you're changing, you'll want to make sure that you're implementing some level of guardrails. Right? So, that was the next piece that I wanted to address. And then what I wanted to do is just define what that output structure should look like. So obviously within every organization, there are certain norms, certain philosophies, in terms of how certain, either presentations or docs, or sheets should actually look. So I wanted to also make sure that I explicitly called that out in the output here as well. And so for the output, I just talked about how, yeah, for account summary changes, for opportunity changes, they should all look a specific way. And so you can see we then created this skill here, which is our Salesforce account update skill. And then what I'll typically do after I build a skill is I'll say, "Okay, given my role, what are some of the different use cases that I could potentially leverage this skill for? And then how can I use this to optimize my existing workflows?" And so you never want to just use a skill just for one thing, right? So, there's a little bit of duality here, right? Where the narrower the skill is, the more performant it's going to be, right? So I would never recommend building a skill that just has this really broad applicability, right? But then you also want to figure out, okay, once I've built this skill that is pretty narrowly focused, what else can I actually do with it? Right? So what else could it potentially be helpful for? So in this case, it's also calling out that for this narrowly built skill, it could also be really helpful for post-meeting Salesforce cleanup. It could be helpful for pre-forecast account hygiene, for customer threads, CRM translation, med pick refreshes, task creation, et cetera. So, again, it's not like a one-size-fits-all skill, but it can also be incredibly valuable across a number of other use cases as well. And then the last thing that I want to call out was that whenever you've built a skill, you could also strengthen that skill by having it also either call other skills or call other plugins or MCPs. That could also make that skill more valuable. So in this case, I also wanted to ask it, okay, what are some of the additional skills or plugins or MCPs that I could also incorporate with this skill to make this workflow even stronger? And so in this case, it came back and said, "Actually, yeah, you could probably use a Salesforce plugin that would make this skill stronger, or you could use a Gmail or Outlook skill that could make this stronger, or a Slack or Teams." Basically, it's looking across all of the different contexts that's available to it and saying, "Okay, if you connected all of these other data sources, you could make this skill even more valuable or more impactful." And then the last thing that I want to show you, is that you could also automate these skills as well, or automate these workflows as well. So in this case, I wanted to say, "Okay, great. I would love to automate this, so let's plan to run this every Friday at 4:00 PM. And then if it's missing any context, just let me know and I will provide that context. That way, you can make sure that you're able to update anything else within Salesforce." All right. So let's move on to the demo, just so you can see what this looks like live. All right. Great. So what we're going to look at is, just the ability for Codex to help an account team update a Salesforce opportunity. So I'm just going to pop back over here, and you can see in this case we have this makeshift Salesforce or demo Salesforce account, called McCombs Consulting. And then we have our demo opportunity. We have the ability to change a number of different fields here. So we could change the stage, we could change the forecast category, we could change the dollar amount, the close date, when does the contract start, when does the contract end, next steps, et cetera. Right? So let's pop back over to Salesforce, and you can see right now we have it in the evaluation stage. We have a dollar amount of about 240K. We have a close date of September 30th. We have no contract start date, and we have no contract end date And then we have no next steps, which is a big no-no here at OpenAI. So, we're going to make sure we get those things updated so that our internal stakeholders have a better sense of what's happening across this opportunity. So let's go ahead and pop back over to Codex. And I'm going to say, "Please update the contract start date to December 25th, 2026." That's an easy enough date to remember. And then for the next steps, let's say that we're going to have a conversation with the chief innovation officer at McCombs Consulting on June 29th. And then let's go ahead and let that cook. In this case, I'm going to use medium reasoning, and then I'm going to just do this on fast. Just to call out really quickly, depending on the level of complexity of the use case, you're going to want to make sure that you're adjusting what models you're using. The analogy that I'll always use is that you never want to use a sledgehammer for a nail. Right? So there's some instances where low effort and medium effort make a lot of sense, and then there are going to be other instances where high effort or, yeah, extra high effort might make more sense. I typically will use high effort and extra high for planning. So just to show you really quickly, you also have the ability to use this planning function. Let's just do backslash. Oops. That's not how you spell plan. So you also have the ability to use this planning function, called Plan Mode, where Codex will also just figure out, okay, what are the 10 to 15 to 20 steps that we should complete to execute this particular task? But again, I'll typically use extra high or high with planning just to figure out what should the overall plan be. And then I'll come back and use medium or low effort to actually execute on that plan. That way, it's more efficient because, again, you don't necessarily need high or extra high to actually do the execution once you've already built out a well-executable plan. All right. So let's go ahead and run this one. So again, I'm saying please update the contract start date to December 25th, and then we're going to have a conversation with the chief innovation officer at McCombs Consulting on June 29th. But yeah, one last thing that I'll call out is that you'll notice that I use the dictation function for this as well. So I'm typically almost never typing in Codex anymore. I'm typically just using our dictation function. And as a result, my ability to type quickly has significantly degraded. All right. So let's go ahead and see what this looks like. All right. So this will probably take about 20, 30 seconds or so, but let's pop back over and you can see again, we were saying we want to move this to December 25th, and then we also want to update the next steps. Great. So you can see that it's using our Salesforce account updates workflow. So one thing that I wanted to call out is I did not explicitly ask it to use that skill. One thing Codex is excellent at is what we call disambiguation. So it's great at figuring out, okay, what tools or what skills could I use that will help me resolve this particular workflow or resolve this particular challenge? So yeah, if your task is ambiguous, it'll just solve for that with its own reasoning. Great. All right, so it's gone ahead and said it updated and verified that McCombs Consulting demo update. It changed the contract start date to December 25th and updated the next steps. So let's go back and see whether it did that. We'll go ahead and refresh our opportunity here. And voila. We can see that it's updated the contract start date to December 25th, and it's updated our next steps to we are going to have a conversation with the chief innovation officer of McCombs Consulting on June 29th. So again, super powerful. Like I mentioned, it's really helpful, right, to be able to do this just with one account. But the power really shows up when you're able to do this across 25 or 40 accounts at the same time, right? But then one other really powerful thing that I wanted to show you is the ability to use this via Codex Mobile. So I'm just going to pull out my phone here really quickly, as you can see. And again, like I said, I hardly do much typing these days. I'm mostly just using voice or using dictation to make a lot of these updates these days. But not only that, but I'm doing a lot of this on the go these days. So a lot of these updates are being made from my bed or via a park bench, or a treadmill. So I just want to show you again how powerful Codex Mobile has gotten. So let me go ahead and say, "Please update the close date to December 25th as well. And then let's make the contract start date..." Or sorry, "Let's keep the contract start date as is and make the contract end date January 1st, 2027." And then let's also remove those next steps that we made previously and change it to the chief AI officer, and let's have that conversation with the chief AI officer on July 2nd. Cool. So we're going to go ahead and send that. I know you can't see my screen, but it's doing everything that you would imagine it would do within Codex. It's talking to Salesforce. It's thinking through the different next steps that I provided it. Right now, it's doing a lot of this manually, right? But I could also just as easily point it at a Slack channel, point it at an email thread, point it at Gong, drop in a transcript from a previous call, and it'll make all of these updates automatically without me having to, again, speak into my phone or use the dictate function via Codex desktop app. All right. So it's told me that it's gone ahead and made those updates on my phone. So I'm just going to go ahead and refresh one more time just so you can see how powerful Codex Mobile is. And voila. It's made all of those updates. So I could have been anywhere. I just happened to be in front of my computer this time, but you saw my hands. I wasn't touching my computer. I could have been walking around the office. I could have been at my home. I could have been on the train, if I had Wi-Fi and I was above ground. But yeah, you can be anywhere with Codex Mobile now and make incredibly powerful changes across a number of different applications. So just wanted to show that as well, but that's the end of my demo. I hope this was helpful. I hope you could find a number of different use cases. The last thing I'll say here is that obviously this demo was specific to Salesforce, but you could do this with virtually any application that could be connected to Codex that has the right permissions, right? So, the possibilities become a little bit endless in terms of what you could actually do with this technology. So I hope this was helpful, and I hope you start to find your own use cases. Thank you so

</details>
