# AI Essentials for Journalists

<!-- vimeo: 1144997203 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

Welcome, everyone. Um, my name's Christina. I am a news partner manager here at OpenAI. Uh, we're really excited to introduce this new academy series. It's designed specifically for news media organizations. Um, this is the first in a growing set of educational videos that will focus on advancing AI fluency for the news media industry. Um, in today's webinar specifically, we'll focus on how we can equip you with a clear understanding of the fundamentals of ChatGPT. So, if you're new today, we hope this session really helps you explore and experiment and understand how AI tools can help support the work that you're doing. Um, and to help shape this work, we are so incredibly grateful to be partnering with the American Journalism Project for today's session. Uh, they have a longstanding commitment to strengthening local newsrooms, and they add such an essential perspective to the conversation. And together, we really want to make sure that education reflects the realities of newsrooms and helps you build a shared understanding as you explore. So, I'll go ahead and pass it to Liam so he can introduce himself. Thank you, Christina. Yeah, my name is Liam Andrew. I am the technology lead at the American Journalism Proje- Project in our Product and AI Studio. The Product and AI Studio, uh, is a, uh, a innovation lab within American Journalism Project that is focused on helping, uh, adopt tools and technologies for, uh, for newsrooms in our portfolio, and helping to share the insights that we are finding with, uh, with the broader field at large. And we're, uh, really excited to be, uh, partnering with OpenAI to, uh, to bring you this session. Great. And so, I wanted to kick off and talk to you about the goals for today's session. Um, today's webinar will be roughly an hour, an hour and a half, but our goal is really to give you an introduction to ChatGPT, giving you a sense of the basics so you can walk away with a better sense of what you can do with ChatGPT and what you can't do and how to work with it the most effectively. And so, we'll cover a handful of different topics, as you can see, in these broader buckets, but a big part of today will focus on how to best and effectively communicate with ChatGPT. Um, we'll, we'll talk through the techniques of how to do that, things like role setting, asking ChatGPT to show its reasoning, and just making small, little tweaks of trying to understand what good looks like. And we often see that that really makes such a big difference in the responses that you're getting. Um, and throughout today's session, we're also going to focus on practical examples. So, instead of talking about it abstractly, we will actually walk you through real-life examples. And the one thing that we would suggest following today's session is none of this is prescriptive. Uh, we don't think that you should use ChatGPT for everything. Today's goal is really just giving you an understanding to decide if and how it can fit into your work moving forward. Uh, experimentation is really key, learning by trial and error. And so, today, we want to give you the tools to walk away confidently, to understand your starting points, how you can work with it more effectively, and experiment. Um, so with that, let's go ahead and dive in. So, I thought today we would actually start with talking about the interface, um, especially if you are brand new to ChatGPT. Some of you may use it all the time, and, um, others may be new. Uh, so either way, I think it's just important that we level set, walk through the tools, the features, and this interface before we dive into some of the interactive features. Um, so let's start with the parts that you'll use the most, um, this chat window right here. This is where you can type. You can start asking a question to ChatGPT. You can even click on this voice button here if you'd prefer to speak to it. Um, and this is where you really will kick off the conversations that you have with ChatGPT. Next, I would say this is the next most important thing, is this plus button on the left-hand side. This is for files and tools. So, this is where you will start to upload documents, spreadsheets, images, et cetera. Um, this also gives you a sense of the different tools that are available and built into ChatGPT that you can access. Uh, so please make sure that you are familiar with that as well. And then at the very top, you'll see the model picker. This is where you can choose different versions of ChatGPT. For the most part, you will never have to worry about this because of the 5 series, which auto-routes those decisions on your behalf. But if you'd like to, that option is there for you. And then on the left-hand side here, you see your chat history. This is where all of your previous conversations live, and this just makes it easier for you to jump back into any of those conversations. Uh, if, you know, you know you, you had a really good dialogue with ChatGPT and you wanted to go back to reference it, you can always see that in your chat history, or you can search for that as well.And then below that is settings and personalization. This is where you can manage and adjust your preferences, and set up the experience in the way that works best for you and in the context that you're working in. And then next, you'll see GPTs. These are specialized versions of Chat, um, that you can use for specific tasks that you build. So, you can do things like build RFP templates, uh, build a GPT for brand guideline adherence, et cetera. Uh, we'll go through all of this in further detail, so, um, I know we're going quickly, but we'll do a deeper dive, um, on all this shortly. And finally, here you'll see Projects. I am a big fan of Projects. Um, this is where ChatGPT can help you organize ongoing work neatly, um, in one place. So it's really helpful for things like planning, research projects, anything that requires multiple conversations, et cetera. Um, it's really great for those longer term tasks. Again, we'll be diving deeper into all of these different functions in today's session. And so before we jump into the bulk of today's session, we thought it would actually be helpful to talk about how to use ChatGPT responsibly. Uh, it's an incredibly powerful tool, but we want you to work best with it thoughtfully, and always, always with human oversight. Um, we know that many of you may be on different versions, whether you're on a business account, enterprise, plus, or free. We want you to be very mindful of what you're sharing unless you're in an improved secure workspace. Um, you have the options to turn off training if you're in a, uh, consumer-facing account. So, in those instances, just please avoid putting any personal or sensitive information, uh, into the model. And we always recommend to keep human in the loop. It's always best to make sure that you're verifying and double-checking anything that ChatGPT is providing you. If you're not getting the response that you're looking for, if you know that something is incorrect, please use the thumbs up or the thumbs down button if anything looks off. Those are really helpful signals back to us. And then always remember, uh, that you want to treat outputs as drafts, and you want to be able to review them. And anything that is more of a sensitive topic, if you're asking for legal, financial advice, ChatGPT can he- be a helpful starting point, but you should not be using it as a final answer. Um, please always consult with a professional for any of these sensitive areas. And, um, please make sure to be transparent when your workplace requires it, and make sure you have consent before uploading any sort of other, uh, data. And lastly, for the most up-to-date information, turn on Search or Deep Research. We'll, again, go through what this means for you. Um, but this ensures that you can verify that, uh, ChatGPT is providing you with sources for anything that requires up-to-date information. Um, and by no means is this a rubric or criteria that, that, um, you need to take for your organizations. This is meant to give you a starting point for the guardrails of how AI can support your work while keeping you and your business safe. So please make sure that you can take these and adjust and build on top of them, uh, based on what your organizations require. Okay. So let's go ahead and dive in. Um, as we go along today, and if it's helpful to start testing some of the things that we'll be showing you today, um, directly into Chat, you can go ahead and go to chat.com on your web page, on your web browser, your desktop, or your phone. Uh, we always think that it's always great by just actually getting yourself into the tools and building that muscle memory. Uh, so if that's helpful, please go ahead and follow along with us. And with Chat, there's really just so much that you can do. It's incredibly versatile in the types of things that you can do with it. I use it in a range of different ways, whether it's getting up to speed very quickly on a topic, and I'm not familiar with it, and giving it to me in a way, and breaking it down in a way that's really easy to understand. Um, or if I'm working through a tricky problem, thinking about the strategy that I'm putting together, I can have ChatGPT be a sounding board to help me think through those ideas and reason through those steps. Um, it, it can also help me just organize information, help me think through my priorities on days where it feels like I'm back to back and it's incredibly overwhelming. It's a good sounding board, again, in just helping you think through, um, how to get things done.You can also use ChatGPT to analyze documents, visualize data, draft outlines, prepare for interviews, or even automate repetitive tasks. So, all of the things that you see on this slide today shows you what's possible. And our biggest encouragement for you is just, again, to start experimenting. Um, try and just see if ChatGPT can help you with any of the challenges that you're running into. Uh, test some of the prompts that we'll walk through today. See if it can actually s-... uh, translate to some of the work that you're doing. Um, and again, the more you experiment, the more intuitive it becomes. So, over time, it turns into building that muscle memory, and it's something that hopefully you can reach for naturally and in the moments when it can truly help you and give you some leverage. Okay. So, we are going to jump into a couple of key sections to help you break down and understand, uh, the fundamentals of ChatGPT. And so, we always think that it's, again, best to start with ChatGPT's learning through action. So, why don't we go ahead and start by just chatting? Um, and I can go ahead and do that just by asking ChatGPT some questions. Um, again, if, if I can start with any question, I can even ask ChatGPT, "How does ChatGPT work?" And as you can see here, it starts to really break down the core concepts in a way that's really easy to understand in plain English. Um, it helps you understand ideas really simply. If I wanted to deep-dive into a specific area, if I wanted to ask a full question, I could go ahead and do that. So, if you don't know where to start, just start by asking any question, big or small. Uh, we'll get into this as well too, but ChatGPT is, is really good at reading and understanding almost any file you give it. So, as an example, if you uploaded a lengthy public records file or a dense research report, you can simply ask it to help you summarize the main points into 10 bullet points or less. Or, if you know that there were specific topics that were covered in that, you can ask it to do a deeper dive into those areas, um, and it can extract some of those key themes and findings and takeaways, uh, particularly in those moments where you don't have hours to spend, uh, understanding the full report and you just want a quick summary to give you an understanding of it before you dive into the report, um, later on. An area that, um, we see continues to grow is speaking with ChatGPT. So, if you prefer talking instead of typing, this is a really simple and natural way of using ChatGPT. You can speak your questions or ideas out loud and ChatGPT responds instantly. It's really helpful for brainstorming, getting guidance, uh, when you're multitasking, or helping you think through problems when you're on the move. Uh, I know I've heard from many different news media organizations that using voice mode in the car or out in the fields where you can't quickly type and you need help in real time is really helpful. Um, and one particular area that I love about voice mode that I've heard time and time again is how helpful ChatGPT voice is for translating conversations in real time. So, if, uh, I need to speak in English and someone is a non-English speaker, they're able to speak in, um, the language that, that they would like to use, and I... it can automatically translate back to English. So, it's incredibly helpful. I would give it a try if you haven't had a chance to do that before. Okay. The next section, we are going to spend a decent amount of time talking about how to prompt with ChatGPT. Um, many of you may have heard the term prompt engineering. Um, it sounds incredibly intimidating and technical, but we assure you, it's not at all. It's not technical. It's not complicated. Um, at its core, really what prompt engineering is, or prompting, simply means just giving very clear instructions to ChatGPT. You don't need to be a coder or an engineer. Everyone uses these techniques every single day, and it's just about building those great communication skills with ChatGPT. Um, we, we like to say, often think about it like the first day at your company. Um, at the end of the first week, if someone asks you to write an end-of-week report to share out, you might panic and think, "What's the format? How detailed does it need to be?"Um, and it's not that you haven't been asked a bad question, you just don't have any of the information to properly address it and give it a good first draft. And so, you can think of ChatGPT that same way. It's incredibly intelligent, but think of it almost as a new colleague. The clearer, more specific you are and you want to be, the better your results are. And so, we try to avoid the word prompt engineering. Just, again, think about it as chatting with ChatGPT, prompting, um, and just, end of the day, be a really thoughtful communicator. Um, and we are going to go through a couple of examples of how to best prompt with ChatGPT. So, here's a really simple way of thinking about it. Uh, think of it like a Mad Lib, and you can have, um, your teammates or you to fill in some of these blank spots, uh, with specific examples of what you do in your role. We think that a good prompt has these three basic components: task, context and output. So, in the first bucket, when we think about a task, this is really focusing on, what do you want the model to actually do? Do you want it to explain a specific topic? Do you want it to analyze data? Uh, really give it a defined definition and the task at hand. Uh, this gives Chat more context about what matters most to you. And you can also upload knowledge documents, so it has a better understanding of your task as well. For, for context, this is really where it's helpful to describe the persona or the role, so that you can give it additional information about the specific context that you're trying to accomplish, and the situation and how I can best support you. So, the way that I might be preparing something for a client email, as an example, is going to be very different than the way I prepare a document for an internal teammate to review. So, specifying the audience, specifying the role, um, is all helpful at guiding the model. And lastly, output. Uh, this is helpful because if you specify what you would like to get out of it, do you want a paragraph that's 10 sentences or less? Would you prefer bullet points? Do you want a table? Et cetera. All of this is incredibly flexible in ChatGPT. So, if you have a preference that you want, you should give it that guidance. And so, together with these three buckets, again, task, context, output, uh, you should get a lot closer to the type of responses that will be valuable to you. So, we, we think it'll be helpful if we can actually walk you through an example of how a simple prompt can actually be improved step-by-step, by following some of these best practices. So, if we start here with a very simple prompt, it's not a very good one, uh, but if I said, "Create an agenda for my weekly news meeting," that's okay. It's very short. It lacks specifics. And if I inputted this into ChatGPT, it will do its best to help you create an agenda, but it has no idea about your role, what you're trying to accomplish through your agenda, or the type of format that you'd prefer that in. So, let's try and improve this prompt a bit. And by doing that, we are going to take the baseline task and give it some context, and also give it a persona here. So here, we can say, "You are the editor of a local newsroom managing 20 reporters across three desks: politics, education and healthcare. Create an agenda template for my weekly news team meeting. The agenda should include audience and impact review, key stories from last week and the weekend, major context..." Sorry. "...major context news to expect this week, and investigative pitches in progress. End with time for open discussion." So here, what you can see, we've added the context, right, and the persona. And this is key to get the most predictable output. So, we added more detail here, and we already made the prompt far more useful. And so, how can we improve this even further? So, next, we want to show you what the best prompt looks like. Here, we are adding some output in format and specifying that, uh, which gives us a better idea of the best format we're getting from ChatGPT. So here, we asked it to format the agenda, so it's suitable for sharing via email as a Word document, using clear section headers and logical flow to support efficient discussion. So, just giving that additional context is giving ChatGPT exactly what I'm looking for.... how to group information and what type of output I'm looking for. And so the takeaway from any of this is, remember that the more context, structure, and detail you can provide, the more valuable the response will be. So again, it's less about being good at prompting and more about clearly thinking about what you want and communicating that and explaining that back to ChatGPT. And one additional tip, uh, just please be patient with yourself and know that you can always experiment and iterate. Uh, as you continue to understand the gaps between your expectations and how ChatGPT responds, you can refine your prompts. And the gap will continue to narrow over time, and you'll see that the responses are more closely aligned with your goals. And if you get stuck and you really just aren't getting the output that you're looking for, you don't necessarily know what else you can do to improve your prompt, you can ask ChatGPT for help. Um, we, we recommend, and I do this often, um, if you don't know how to best phrase your question or if you're tackling a completely new area that you're not familiar with, you can have ChatGPT write the prompt yourself. So just break down the task into specific steps, point out the information that matters most to you, and it can help you structure your request so you're getting a better result. So, uh, I would recommend that you try this as well if you're getting stuck. Um, great. So now that we've gone through some of the fundamentals and the building blocks of how to navigate the UI, how to be good at prompting, I'm actually going to hand it over to Liam so he can show you how to best customize ChatGPT and focus on some practical use cases that you can use as well. Okay. Thank you, Christina. I am excited to walk you through how you can make ChatGPT fit into the way that you work. All right. So one first helpful piece of advice is to personalize your workspace and your conversations with ChatGPT. And you can do that by navigating to the icon in the bottom left corner of ChatGPT and select Personalization, and I'll just go and do that myself. This is in my ChatGPT account. I clicked on Personal- Select Personalization, and as you can see here, I gave ChatGPT a little bit more information about me. I tell it what it can, what it should call me. I can give it more information about what I do and can ask it to add specific traits and the tone that I want it to use. So here, for example, I specify that I primarily code in Python and JavaScript. I ask for help often synthesizing projects and learnings, explaining technical concepts to non-technical stakeholders. I ask for a professional but not formal tone, uh, to give more, eh, and multiple examples and more. So yours can look different, but ChatGPT will take all of this into consideration when it's giving responses, so think of this as underpinning any new chats. And it works similarly to the way that prompting works in, in terms of its best practices. Another way that it personalizes is with memories. So maybe there are certain things that you want it to remember, or it detects something that will be relevant to conversations moving forward, and you'll see it save a memory in the conversation. Uh, so you can manage your memories and ChatGPT's memories of you with this me- memory button. Uh, and it will, for example, remember the country you live in or the company that you work for. Um, and temporary chats, if you go here to turn on temporary chat, will not use or make memories. Another way that I like to make ChatGPT fit to how I work is to use projects to organize my chats and maintain context across multiple chats. As you start to use ChatGPT more and more across different parts of your work, you will find yourself working on multiple initiatives and researching topics all at once. Projects that... They make that easy to by letting you group those related chats into one place, so you can think of them as private research folders. Uh, each project should be for one specific project or initiative. And all the chats in that project, the knowledge files you upload, and ev- and all the shared context you give to the model, it'll allow you to stay organized and stay focused and track progress and come back to your work without losing your place. To create a project, you need to simply go to the New Project button in the left sidebar. You can go in and name your project, and then you'll upload documents that we want the project to always remember. So for demo purposes, we're going to create a project that will help with the donor outreach for a fictional publication called Lone Star Watch. With this... With Lone Star Watch, I have a PDF that shares a bit more about our mission, our core values, and the common talking points that we use when we do fundraising. So I'm gonna upload that as a knowledge doc. So first, I'll create the project, and I'll name it Donor Outreach-And then, I will take... I'll go to the Add Files and I'll upload the knowledge document that I have that has our, our core mission and, and information. A lot of the talking points that we often use to talk about ourselves. And once that's all set, I can close this and I can start asking for, uh, for, for output. So in this case, I'm going to give it this prompt. "You are the development co- coordinator at Lone Star Watchdog. Using the uploaded mission and donor talking points document, draft a 150-word introductory email to a prospective philanthropic foundation in Travis County. Keep tone community-centric, include one impact statistic from the doc, and add a clear donation call to action." And I have some details about what it'll provide. Uh, so this has the, the context and form that, uh, that we would expect from a good prompt and it'll have that extra information from the knowledge document. So this will give me a starting place that I can use to iterate for our outreach language. I didn't have to re-include all the additional context because the project had that information as a file it can reference. And you'll see in here that, uh, it does give some specific examples that it cites from that mission statement. Right. Now that you have a better idea of how you can personalize ChatGPT to fit the way that you work, I wanted to walk you through some of the tools and capabilities that ChatGPT has access to. We've all experienced how difficult it can be to get useful answers on the web and ChatGPT has access to search the web, which can give you up-to-date information from across the internet and s- that's, that's information that's beyond the model's built-in knowledge. Search is really powerful for finding up-to-date information, recent news, local information and more. And when ChatGPT searches the web, it will always provide really clear attribution and links back to the sources so you can verify that information. And I always recommend we do that. Chat will automatically search the web if it's obvious that recent information is required, but you can also always force it to use the web search by clicking on the Tools button on the left side of the messaging bar and selecting the More option and clicking Web Search. One of the most beneficial features we've seen for news organizations is using Deep Research. Deep Research takes more time and reasons by thoroughly searching the internet, analyzing large amounts of text, comparing information, evaluating claims, and synthesizing insights for you in a packaged research report. It can take a while, anywhere from five to 15 minutes or more to complete, but we found that it saves so much time for research that would have taken hours or days to complete. So, you might use re- Deep Research to review a specif- specific sector that you're interested in reporting on more deeply, to understand trends in the nonprofit sector or changes over the past few decades, or to research new markets that your business is looking to expand into. So we'll go through an example of how this could look for you. To activate Deep Research, we'll start a new chat and go click on the plus button and select Deep Research here. And I'm going to give it a prompt that will start the Deep Research process. This one says, "You are a local reporter newly assigned to Travis County, Texas. Conduct a Deep Research investigation on historical water quality challenges, policies, and controversies in Travis County from 2004 to 2025, including nitrate contamination events, Hamilton Pool closures, MS4 storm water regulations, and leaky pipe infrastructure studies." So this is giving some of the information you already have so that it can go deeper on the information that you might not. And it gives some, uh, some details about what, uh, how we want it to look at the end. We want a six-paragraph historical narrative, uh, a table of key pile s- key policy milestones, a bullet list of five story angle ideas relevant to coverage, and citations for every fact. So I'm going to get this started and you'll see that, how Deep Research immediately asks for clarifying questions before getting started. So, uh, it asks if the, if it wants to be, if the focus should be county-level only or also city, if we want the narrative to include state or federal policy changes. And just for purposes of getting it started, I'll say both. And then this will take a long time to run, so it's going to dig into this. You'll see it says starting research. Um, we're gonna show you what it looks like at the end. Uh, and so this is, uh, uh, this same prompt run su- run recently and you'll see that it gave me this output of same eight, eight paragraphs of a historical narrative. And it has a lot of citations to, uh, to... from the web. It has the key policy milestones here that we asked for and it has story ideal- i- idea angles... story i- angle ideas for 2026 coverage. So because it can take a while, uh, we're not gonna wait for it to, to finish here but, uh, this gives you an idea of, of what's possible here and just how much time it can save for any sort of research that you need to run. Um, next we wanted t- show you how ChatGPT can be an active collaborator.We'll start with Canvas. Canvas, you can think of Canvas as a shared document that you can collaborate with ChatGPT on. It has a rich text editor and shortcuts for common needs like suggesting edits, tweaking the length, and more. And you can ensure that ChatGPT uses Canvas by clicking the Canvas button or using the backslash Canvas command. ChatGPT also works in many different languages, uh, over 100 languages and it can also detect what language you're writing in. So if you're working with multilingual audiences, this is a great example of being able to quickly translate text as a first pass before shipping this out. ChatGPT can also work for different modes of files. So ChatGPT can ingest and understand images. Let's say you find an old archival image that's hard to read and written in Spanish. You can upload that to ChatGPT and have it translate the image directly into English. Even if you have handwritten notes, you can upload that and turn it into notes that you can share with others. This is a common tactic for me after I scribble days of notes into a notebook at conferences, and I want to share what I've heard with others. ChatGPT can also generate images. Let's say we need an image we can attach to an internal email and you don't have design resources to support you, you can ask ChatGPT to help you with that. Now that we've researched and used ChatGPT as a collaborator, let's see how it can help with analyzing data like spreadsheets. ChatGPT is really helpful at working directly with data. You can upload spreadsheets, tables, CSV files, and ChatGPT can help you clean or transform the data, compute outrick- outputs or metrics, summarize what's happening, and even create charts or visualizations. This is incredibly useful if you want to quickly understand trends like audience engagement or coverage patterns, uh, health of your membership, financial performance, or any other data that you have without spending hours digging through rows and columns. So you can ask it things like, transform this data, analyze this table, or plot these trends, and ChatGPT will write the code and visualize the results automatically. This means that you spend less time in spreadsheets and more time focused on insights. I'm going to show you a pretty advanced prompt in helping me understand two months of our web data and finding key trends. So we're going to keep to the fictional organization and going to ask it to analyze and visualize my data and share insights. The first thing I'm going to do is attach a CSV file of web analytics from Lone Star Watch from the past two months. And then I'm going to give it a pretty detailed prompt. This prompt says, "You are a senior data analyst supporting a digital news platform focused on audience growth and engagement strategy. I've uploaded two months of our anali- web analytics data attached." And then it has step-by-step task. "First, create an interactive bar chart showing total page views per article category," and has some details about that. "Second, identify the top performing article category for each viewer age group. Third, insight generation and strategy. Based on observed patterns, recommend data points and trends we can share with the editorial leads. And fourth, also one for executives, uh, uh, insights for executives." And it has details about the form here. So I'm going to run this, and this also might take a minute to run. It's going to think, it's going to analyze and r- and run some code to get it done. So I'm gonna show you the results of, of this or, uh, something like this. And it gave me immediately this visual, uh, so I can see the page views per article category in a bar chart, and it shows me a rundown of the top categories. You'll see politics, for example, here is the top category. It, uh, shows the to- top performing categories by age g- age group as requested, and it starts to summarize what it found and turn these into insights for you. So pra- politics being a primary traffic engine, or education as a strategic second pillar. Uh, it gives you suggestions on how to, how to share this and with whom. So, and here's one for editors and one for executives. So you'll see it really goes deep and, and answers kind of step by step and line by line the questions that you have. And you can continue to work with that data and ask for visualizations from it from here. Great. The last thing that we want to demo for you today is showing you how to use a custom GPT. If you find yourself doing repeat tasks, custom GPTs are a powerful way to help if you're doing the same task over and over again. A custom GPT is a specialized version of ChatGPT that is built for a specific task. And I hear from many different news organizations how incredibly useful custom GPTs are for them.Custom GPTs are like building your own specialized tools. It's tailored to your workflow, your business, and supports repeatable tasks. You can add custom instructions and upload your own knowledge. You can share them with others, and if it's more advanced, you can even connect it to third-party systems. One example we see news organizations use custom GPTs for is support for CMS inputs. We're going to go and create one now. To create a GPT, uh, under GPTs, I can go to Create button here, and this puts me in a window to fill in some fields that will help to create this GPT. So this first one is going to be, again, the CMS assistant, and I'm gonna continue using a Lone Star Watch, um, use case or example. And I'm gonna say that it's here to support CMS inputs. I'm going to give it a fairly straightforward but s- uh, step-by-step set of instructions, and I'll show you these instructions. "You are an LSW CMS assistant and newsroom content ops specialist. Guidelines. First, follow the ups- uploaded CMS style guide verbatim." And we're going to get that soon. "Default to AP style for anything unaddressed. When asked for metadata, output JSON with some keys," and this is going to be keys that go directly into your CMS. "For social copy, provide Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram captions in a markdown table. Suggest three headline alternates, and always cite the specific section name from the style guide that informed your answer." And this is an important step often for, for many of these tools, uh, these cases. If it's more, a more advanced task, it's sometimes helpful to instruct it to just take your time and think step by step and double check. Down here, there's some more configuration that you can do with your GPT. One of the really important ones is this knowledge files, and this similar to where we were working in projects and uploading it to... Uh, uploading attached knowledge files there. Um, it's, it's really helpful to have knowledge that can work together with your, your prompt. In this case, we're putting in the CMS g- style guide because that's what we referenced in the instructions, and that's what's going to lead to the best CMS outputs. Below here, you can specify recommended models and specific capabilities, functionality that the GPT can use. In this case, I don't need it to generate j- to work on a canvas with me or generate images, but I might want it to have web search. From here, I'm going to create this GPT. So as this... Once this is created, I can go and view it, and you can also then navigate to, navigate to it from your GPT sidebar. I'm now going to give it an example story that we might need to be... Put, put into the CMS. So this story has a title, "Travis County well show rising nitrate levels, residents seek tests." It has a byline and a dateline. And then it has the text, the content of the story, maybe, uh, uh, a few paragraphs. If I input this, it might take its time to process, but once it gets to the below, I'll, I'll show you what it, what it... An example of what it puts out. So here, because of all that information, information and context that we gave it, it's able to quickly get us what we need. We asked for the SEO metadata so that we can get that straight into our CMS, and you can just copy this code and put it in your CMS. It made sure that every, all of the characters fit into the specifications that we asked for. It proposes some headline alternates and some social copy. Uh, and it suggests some other things that it can do here. So this is a really good example use case for a custom GPT. We've also seen custom GPTs used to support a sales team as they generate talking points for a new sponsor, or to scour a newsroom's own archive and look for historical stories, and a lot more. That's all that we have for demos for today, so for conclusion, I'll turn it over to Christina. Thanks, Liam. Appreciate you walking through all the demos. Uh, in closing, we really hope that you found today's session useful in giving you practical techniques and giving you greater confidence in getting the most out of ChatGPT. Again, there's no single right way to use it. Uh, the real value is really through that experimentation and it- iteration that we had talked about in figuring out how we can best apply to your own workflows. So we hope, uh, you can take, uh, something from today, experiment with some of the prompts that we had shared, uh, and maybe try some new approaches and let ChatGPT evolve alongside your work. So thank you for spending your time with us in today's session, and you can check out some other materials that we'll make available on the Academy. So thank you.
