# MCP Solutions for Newsrooms

<!-- vimeo: 1146072383 | track: English (auto-generated) -->

I am re I go by Ren. Um, I'm a solutions architect at OpenAI. I'm very excited to be here today. Um, I'm talking about some different ways that you can bring your own data and systems into chat, bt, and there's a couple different mechanisms, connectors, MCP servers, and I'm also gonna touch on our newly launched apps, SDK, which allows you to build apps within Chat GT and I think is really cool not only from like a internal use case perspective, but also from a, um, external distribution consumer respective. So if you think back to 2023 when chat GPT was first launched, it was really groundbreaking for Q and a. You could ask almost any question and get an answer in real time. Now we're two and a half years later and we're at what we think of as a second Chachi PT moment where the models have evolved that they can solve problems independently, not just answer questions. And that means we can start treating AI less like a search engine and more like a coworker that can take charge of whole workflows. And there are kind of two things I'm gonna talk about today that unlock this Doing things capabilities. You know, I think a big prerequisite for doing end-to-end work is having access to all the right tools, data, um, systems. If you think about the work that we do in our jobs, the vast majority of time you're working kind of in, in our own systems. Um, so I'm gonna talk about MCP servers and I'm gonna talk about the apps sdk. So first up, MCP servers. This is a way of enriching chat GPT with additional context. So external data, external systems. And first off, what is A MCP server? MCP stands for model context protocol. Um, it's basically a language that LLMs and MCP clients, so this is Chacha pt, this is Claw, this is Cursor has agreed with MCP servers, the builder's MC servers to mutually speak, right? So it's an open protocol that's basically a language, um, that allows the clients to communicate with the servers. Um, and I like to think of an MP server as sort of like a souped up API. So most of you guys have probably heard of or worked with REST APIs and you'll know that in order to call rest API you need to write some amount of client code and maybe you have the help of an SDK, but no matter what you're writing some amount of code to be able to call REST API. And that's because apriori, you don't really know what endpoint the API has. You don't really know the shape of the input parameters or the responses. And so the way I like to think about MCP servers is that they're sort of like a self-documenting API with standardized inputs and outputs. So in the MCP protocol, they've agreed that hey, every MCP server is gonna have an endpoint that returns a list of all the endpoints and the descriptions for them and their input schemas and output schemas. And so that means that when a client, so I mean like Chacha PT or clot or Cursor wants to connect an MP server, um, it really just needs the URL. You don't have to write client code. Um, you don't have to, you don't have to write custom integration code. And this is great because you might potentially, as a user wanna connect to many different MP servers. So you don't wanna have to do the all that integration work. So that is from a technical perspective, from a user's perspective, when and why exactly would you wanna connect your CHATT instance to a MCP server? And the way that I like to think about this is anytime that you've thought to yourself, Hey, I really wish I'd access to X dataset in chatt or Y content or Z SaaS tool, that's probably where an MP server could be used. Now you might say, Hey, I've heard of other terms or features that OpenAI has launched, that ostensibly allows you to bring additional context into touch. Bt for instance, you may have heard of connectors, we launched that over the summer. And I think the way to think about this is in a tiered system. So connectors, our native connectors are one integration that we have built ourselves. And under the hood, they're also kind of implemented via MCP. Um, but these are very, um, these are the most popular productivity and collaboration tools that most organizations might be using. So this is stuff like Google Drive, Google Calendar, SharePoint, Dropbox, Gmail. So chat, BT has built first party integrations to all of these fast tools. And if your data is in exclusively these systems that are kind of first party accessible, then you know, voila, you're done. You don't really actually need to listen to the, the rest of this talk. Um, but if you also wanna access data that doesn't fall under this first tier of native connectors, then you might consider, uh, configuring a custom connector, um, to an already built MCP server. And the thing here is that a lot of additional companies have built MCP servers. So like Databricks, snowflake or Super Base, you know, Bloomberg, Morningstar, capital Q like if your data is in these systems or you want data from these systems, um, and you have a an a license For these systems, uh, you likely do not need to build your own MCP version, um, of these systems. You can just Google, you know, data, MCP server, snowflake, MP server, and you'll just have to kind of wire. But that's kind of tier two. And between tier one, the native connectors and tier two, the custom connectors that allow you to already build MCP servers, that really should cover 80% of use cases. And then the, the most advanced tier, I would say is building your MCP server. And that should really be reserved for if you truly have proprietary system or data that do not live in any popular tool at all. And we'll talk more about that later in the presentation. So I also wanted to highlight chat GBT dev mode. So chat GBT dev mode is something we launched a couple weeks ago, I think almost a month ago at this point. And it allows plus pro and actually at this point, Business subscribers to create custom connectors. So if you wanna do this tier two In the last slide, then you're gonna need to be in chat gt dev mode, um, and allows you to connect to arbitrary MCP servers, including MP servers that can take right actions, so can mutate the systems that they're connected to. It's very powerful. It should be used quite carefully. And I just wanted to highlight, um, how you can turn on dev modes. You'll go to your profile here on the left. You go to settings, you go to apps and connectors, and then you scroll all the way down, you go to advanced settings and you can toggle on developer mode. And then once you toggle that on, what you should see is this button here, this create button. And when you click it, this modal pops up and it allows you to configure a new connector, provided that you give it a MP server, URL. So you give it a name, you describe, you know, what exactly the MP server does. Maybe it's, you know, surfaces, airline pricing data or you know, um, some other kind of system. And then you can also configure the authentication. So when you build the MCP server or you know, a lot of cases you're using pre-built ones. Um, so their builders can choose to protect all of the endpoints that the server exposes with authentication. So you can basically ask the user to have to log in and prove that they have an entitlement to the data before they're allowed to, allowed to access it. And so you go ahead and create it there. So that's chat gt dev mode. So where can you find MCP servers or where can you find that URL to pop into that modal? Um, there are a couple different ways of getting an MCP server, URL. Um, the first, as I mentioned, is to check whether there's an already built MCP server. Um, and this should really be the vast majority of cases. So if your data's in Snowflake, if it's a Databricks or Postgres or you wanna collect chat GT to some public government dataset, very likely one has already been built for you. Um, I really like smithery.ai. It's sort of like a hugging face. It's like a hosting platform for MCP servers and then model context protocol. The protocol has a council that sort of governs the rules of the protocol and they're also putting together a comprehensive registry of all MCP servers have been published. So just to give you a sense of kind of what Smithery looks like, um, yeah, so there are a lot listed here. Um, so you know, there's, you know, here's Notion which is actually a first party integration, so you don't really need to use, use their P server, but there's a lot of other ones as well, like the weather, MP server, Google Maps, and a lot of these are built by members of the community. But then oftentimes, like Google Maps itself might also create an official Google Maps MCP server. So in general, I would try to use official ones, uh, as opposed to community ones because the official ones are obviously gonna be better supported. Um, but I would, you know, really take a look@smithery.ai. Um, and then use cases for MCP servers that I think are relevant for this audience are things like integrating public interest data sets with chatt, integrating internal tools and systems and integrating your archives. And now I'm gonna go into a few examples. So, okay, the first one is this MCP server. So this is from the United Nations, uh, refugee Commission. So these are refugee statistics and if we take a look at the tools, these are basically the endpoints that have been exposed. It's get population data, you know, get decisions. And so these are kind of the functions that the model can choose to call. So let's go ahead and take a look at what this looks like. So in order to use thep server, once it's been connected, you have to click this plus button and then you have to, so you'll, you'll see here under more and then you'll be able to select thep server that you want. So I'm asking a quick question. Can you visualize the number of refugees from Afghanistan from 2019 to 2023 using the data from the UN refugee data MP? So the data that it's pulling here is from this M-C-P-M-C-P server. It's not from the web. So the data's very trustworthy and clean. 'cause that's one of the issues with, um, just kind of getting data from the web via CHI chat pt, is that you can't necessarily trust the numbers. So this is like a really good workaround for that. And here on the left side, what you'll see is that a number of tool calls happened, right? So this is the model deciding that hey, like, you know, I'm gonna query the MCP server and ask it for the, the number of Afghan refugees in 2019. Okay? And then it's repeating this for 20 20, 20 21, 20 22, In 2023. So it's getting all that data and if you click on this little icon on the left here, you'll see kind of the tool input and the tool output. So what's really, really cool about this is that the model cha, so GPT five was able to parse this natural language query and map this query to these arguments. So the arguments in this function get population data, our country of origin, uh, country of asylum year, and a couple other parameters. But it was able to parse from this query, hey, we're interested in Afghanistan and then translate this natural language Afghanistan to a country code for Afghanistan, which is a FG. And then it was able to parse out, okay, I'm looking for data from 2019 to 2023. So I knew that I needed to make successive calls to get all the data that it needed. And then after it got the data, it was able to write a bunch of Python code. So here wanna write a bunch of Python code to actually go ahead and visualize this. And obviously the US pulled out of Afghanistan in 2021, which is why you see this huge spike, right? So, but this is a combination of kind of a lot of things that's going on. It's using the data, it's bringing that into chat pt, it's adding on this layer of the code interpreter, which not only writes the code but then runs the code and then visualizes the output of the code all within the Chat g PT interface. So this is very powerful. The next example that I'm going to show is using MCP servers to connect to super base. So for those of you who are less familiar, super Pay is a managed Postgres database. So in this example, we can think of it as a standin for, um, any structured database like Databricks, snowflake, Looker, um, any post gras database. And just to give you the context, I've set up a super base instance, uh, here, super base instance, and we have two tables that sort of mock out a subscriber database, right? So we have subscribers and then we have, uh, organizations. So the subscribers are associated with the organization and then the organizations are part of an industry. So we are able to, I'm already connected to this MCP server, the MP server, and this is available, this organization's table is available and then the subscriber's table is available and it's able to gimme a bunch of metadata as well, um, about, about the tables. And I'm able to ask it, Hey, can you create a pie chart with the industry that the subscribers belong to? So again, it knows that it needs to, in this case, run a SQL query, right? To count the subscribers by industry. So the SQL Query execution happens inside the MCP server, but then it returns the results of that SQL query back to Chacha pt and then chat Chip GT is able to take that data again, write some Python, and generate this nice pie chart. And this is all in natural image. And then the last thing that I wanna show is sort of the right action. So what if I wanna add another subscriber? So it's calling a tool add subscriber, execute the sequel. Okay, great. And let's take a look to check whether that's the case subscribers and great. He is here. Awesome. So as I mentioned, in 80% of the cases, you should be relying on our native one P connectors or a SP server that was built by your tool of choice. However, in that 20% of cases where you really need to build your own MP server, the steps are roughly first identify the data source that you want to connect to chat BT two, um, build a MP server that exposes actions that can be taken on that data source. So for example, search or list table. And there are both Python and type script SDKs, um, for building SP server. So here's the Python one, and this will be shared. Um, and the resources slide at the end of the presentation, I think the slides will be shared as well. But just to give you a rough sense of what the code looks like, it's actually pretty simple. You're basically just defining functions, right? With parameters, those correspond to the actions or endpoints, and then you add some annotations with CP tool annotation. Um, it's all built on top of fast API for those of you who are familiar with that. Um, and then optionally you can add authentication to the relevant endpoints to basically require that users have to sign in. Um, and you control kind of which users you let in, um, in order to be able to interact with the data. And this is, I think, very important, especially when you're looking at actions like the one that we just took where you're adding a subscriber, right? Like this is potentially actually quite dangerous. You need to think about who you wanna be able to give access to this connector too, because you are changing the state of your subscriber database. Um, so I think authentication's very important. And then again, you can connect chat g bt to your MP server via chat g bt developer mode, which you can get to in click your profile on the left settings, apps and connectors, and then scroll down, advanced settings, developer mode. So that is MCP servers. The second thing that I wanted to talk about today is our apps. SDK, which just launched on Dev day about three weeks ago. And I'm really excited about this. Apps, SDK basically gives third party developers the ability to build an app within chat GPT. So on dev day, we launched with seven Hero partners, including Spotify, booking, Expedia, Figma. And this experience is, is live on, um, Che Chippie personal accounts today. So you can go in and try it yourself on your Che Chippie personal account, including free accounts, and basically you just type in Spotify, can you create a playlist that my toddler will enjoy falling asleep to. And then what you'll see render is this app, um, that Spotify has created. And I think the key thing, the reason why I wanna talk about it today is that Apps SDK is actually built on top of MCP as well. So if you start getting familiar with MCP and the primitive of MCP, I think it really opens up a lot of possibilities for you as a newsroom. And obviously the, the big attraction of building an app on top of chat chit is that, um, chat Chit has over 800 million weekly active users. I think it is the, um, most exciting new distribution channel that we've seen in a decade. And over time we plan on making in conversation discovery a big part of this ecosystem push. And so that means that users won't need to prefix their query with Spotify or you know, if they're just asking like, Hey, can I create a playlist? Or like, tell me more about Taylor Swift or questions like this that they'll be recommended. Um, they'll be recommended a Spotify app. And so the kind of like pushing these app experiences in front of Chet users I think is just incredibly powerful distribution mechanism. Um, to show you kind of another example, let me see. There's another example, Zillow that we, that we launched on dev day. So we say Zillow, can you show me some houses for sale in Minneapolis? And the key thing here is that like, this is really a full fledged app experience because, you know, this is obviously much richer and more interesting than what you previously got in search. And then you can punch out, you know, you can, you can get more detail on each of these. Sorry, I had these like teed up. Um, you can get more detail on the different houses, you can ask follow up questions, um, and then at the appropriate points you can also click out into your own platform. Um, so currently we are very much in preview mode. Um, the app submission is not open, that will be open later this year. Um, but I would really encourage you guys to kind of play around, um, with apps, SDK, because I, I really do think the discovery mechanism, um, can be really powerful for news organizations. So this gives you a, this slide gives you a sense of what that would look like. You know, you're kind of in conversation, you're asking, gimme a list of pizza restaurants, and then there's these suggestions at the bottom, these little chips. And so users can choose to to click on them. And then, oh yeah, in terms of, um, yeah, how apps SDK is built on top of MCP. So basically to build an app, you build a react component and then you pass that to chat GT via an MP server. So an MP server is the interface and most MCP servers that I showed you earlier, like the super based one, they're returning text and js ON to build an app. In addition to returning, you know, structured text and JSON, you also return a pointer to an HTML template that contains your, your React code. Um, and then we go ahead and render that in a I frame on our side. So MCP is kind of the underlying primitive for, for all of this. And yes, you can also add authentication to the relevant endpoints right now our docs are available, um, at developers.openai.com. You click, click on the chat GPT tab, and then there's a lot of information about how you can already start building and you can test in developer mode as Well. So you have to test on, on personal accounts, uh, plus or pro. Um, and then as I said, the app store submission process will be open later this year. And I have a slide for resources at the end here for anybody who is, who is interested. And I'm happy to take questions at this point. Thank you guys very much.
